A plain tale that has gravity and persuasion and belongs in the realistic school of narrative.
We may laugh, as bystanders usually do, when somebody else's mortal frame and personal dignity
are kicked around as with this tenderfoot. Text and tune are as sung by Norman Byrne of the
University of Oregon, and as he learned it in Alberta, Canada.

Arr. H. F.

One day I thought I'd have some fun, And see how punch-ing cows was done; So

= SS Se

when the round-up had be-gun I tack-led the cat - tle king. Says

he, '' My fore-man's gone to town,He's in' a_ sa-loon and hisname_ is Brown; If

(1, 2, 3, 4, etc., verses\ Last verse (Fine)

SSS Si a

you see him he'll take you down." os I, ''That'sjust the thing." . (way.)

1 One day I thought I'd have some fun, 4 They saddled me up an old gray hack
And see how punching cows was done; With a great big seat fast on his back.
So when the roundup had begun They padded him down with gunny sack
I tackled the cattle king. And with my bedding too.
Says he, ''My foreman's gone to town, When I got on him he left the ground,
He's in a saloon and his name is Brown; Went up in the air and circled around
If you see him he'll take you down." And when I came down I busted the ground.
Says I, "That's just the thing." I got a terrible fall.
2 We started out to the ranch next day. 5 They picked me up and carried me in
Brown talked to me most all the way. And rubbed me down with a picket pin.
Says, "Punching cows is nothing but play, Says, "That's the way they all begin."
It is no work at all." "You're doing fine,"' says Brown.
Oh jimminy krissmas, how he lied! "To-morrow morning if you don't die
He had a hell of a lot of gall, I'll give you another hoss to try."
He put me in charge of the cavvy hole, Says I, "Oh can't I walk? .. ."
Says Brown, "Don't work too hard." Says Brown, "Yep, back to town."
3 Sometimes those cattle would make a break 6 I've travelled up, I've travelled down,
And across the prairie they would take, I've travelled this wide world all around,
Just like they was running for a stake. I've lived in city, I've lived in town;
To them it was nothing but play. I've got this much to say:
Sometimes they would stumble and fall, Before you go to punching cows, [your life,
Sometimes you couldn't head 'em at all, Go kiss your wife, get a heavy insurance upon
And we'd shoot on like a cannonball And shoot yourself with a butcher knife,
Till the ground came in our way. For that is the easiest way.
