To the time-beats of galloping hoofs, the stride of horse and rider, convicts of the Kentucky
penitentiary at Frankfort have made a song.

Yon - der eoines the high sher - iff rid - in' aft - er me,

| Ga Se ae ee = eee eee

Rid -in' aft - er me, yes, rid - in' aft - er me. Yon oe comes Shee high  sher - iff

SSS Se SS aT

rid - in' aft - er me, it's cap- tain, I aoreane to

1 Yonder comes the high sheriff ridin' after me,
Ridin' after me, yes, ridin' after me.

Yonder comes the high sheriff ridin' after me,
O it's captain, I don't want to go.

2 Been down to Frankfort servin' out my time,
Servin' out my time, yes, servin' out my time.
Been down to Frankfort servin' out my time,
O it's captain, I don't want to go.

PORTLAND COUNTY JAIL

A Chicago newspaperman who happened to do in real life what Paddy Flynn does in this song,
got ten days, as Paddy Flynn did, in the Portland County jail. While recovering from his bootleg
headache, he learned the first three verses of a song there. For the fourth, we are indebted to
philosophers at the extreme left in the labor movement and in modernist art in Chicago. Whether
sung solo or in ensemble or melee, the ungrammatical "A'"' in the last line is to be howled with high
scorn. The word "trun" means "threw" or "throwed''; it rhymes with fun. A "can" signifies
a jail or place of forcible detention.

Arr. L. 8.
Fairly fast

i : So aaa See =e :

f= ee a
a stran-ger in your cit - y, my name is Pad -dy Flynn.

SSS Se ee Se
= al -- See o a
4 * I "1 = ei al gr wee id "§

ah
oa
I got drunk the oth -er night and the cop-pers run me _ in. I
SS ee SEN be
ro a See Sees a

r ee (am he
= " toe + =| + = +e eae ee
ee ae dcr eS |
-----
= SS

Lar aa, aT | aa F i
4 v
had no mon-ey to pay my fine, no one to go my bail; So
Op eee eee eee
S 27 Sh Or Lee Ce ee ee
pao a ee
ha pee] eS ee
ep oa ee es a
- = -e ow a = bow =

PORTLAND COUNTY JAIL

1 I'm a stranger in your city, my name is Paddy Flynn.
I got drunk the other night and the coppers run me in.
I had no money to pay my fine, no one to go my bail;
So I got stuck for ninety days in the Portland County jail.

2 Oh, the only friend that I had left was Happy Sailor Jack;
He told me ail the lies he knew, and all the safes he'd cracked;
He'd cracked them in Seattle, he'd robbed the Western Mail.
'Twould freeze the blood of an honest man in the Portland County jail.

iS)

Oh, such a bunch of devils no one ever saw,

Robbers, thieves and highwaymen, breakers of the law;

They sang a song the whole night long, the curses fell like hail;

I'll bless the day that takes me away from the Portland County jail.

re

Finest friend I ever had was Officer McGurk.

He said I was a lazy bum, a no-good and a shirk.

One Saturday night when I got tight, he trun me in the can,
And now you see he's made of me A honest workingman.

ae eae? ar,

MOONLIGHT

Meet me by moon-light alone,

And then I will tell you a tale,

Must be told by the moon-light alone,

In the grove at the end of the vale;

You must promise to come, for I said

I would show the night-flowers their queen,
Nay turn not away that sweet head!

*Tis the loveliest ever was seen!

Oh! meet me by moonlight alone,

Meet me by moonlight alone!

The verse above is one of several in the popular song of many years ago, Meet Me by Moon-
light. As it reached the Tennessee and Kentucky mountains and lived on there, the mountain
people made adaptations till they had changed it into their own song and something else again. . . .
See, in this connection, the note to The Ship That Never Returned, in this book. . . . The
mountain lyrists who composed the verses to "Moonlight," as here given, eventually won an im-
mense audience; desperate opera stars, hunting a composition that had a sure hold on American
heart strings, put on its modern derivative, The Prisoner's Song, in their "popular performances,"

as the phrase goes. . . . The tune here is from Gilbert R. Combs and the text includes verses from
Combs and from Mary Leaphart. . . . In singing the refrain may or may not be used with al]
stanzas.

Moderato

Meet me to - night, lov - er, meet Tie, cs O
Se Se
vl f %~xrw ose +
<oee
meet me_ inthe moon-light a - lone, I have asad sto - ry to

tell VOU =. Must be told in the moon - light a - lone.

1 Meet me to-night, lover, meet me, 2 I'm going to a new jail to-morrow,
O meet me in the moonlight alone, And leave my poor darlin' alone,
I have a sad story to tell you, With the cold prison bars all around me,
Must be told in the moonlight alone. And my head on a pillow of stone.

3 Your father and mother don't like me,
Or they never would have drove me from their
door;
If I had my life to live over
I would never go there any more.

The first verse serves as Refrain.

4 I wish I had never been born
Or had died when I was young.

I would never have saw your sweet face

Or heard your lyin' tongue.

5 If I had a-minded my mother
I had been with her today,
But I was young and foolish
And you stole my heart away.

6 I have three ships on the ocean
All laden with silver and gold;
And before my darlin' should suffer
I'd have them all anchored and sold.

7 If I had the wings of an eagle
Across the wide sea I would fly.
I would fly to the arms of my darling
And there I would stay till I die.

MIDNIGHT SPECIAL. (2)

A fast train, such as "The Midnight Special,'' means a getaway, outside air, freedom. They

sing about it in the Houston, Texas, jailhouse, and elsewhere.

The verses here can with little oz

no practice be adjusted to the tune of Midnight Special (1) in our folio of Dramas and Portraits.

1 If you evah go to Houston,
You better walk right;
You better not gamble
And you better not fight.
T. Bentley will arrest you,
He'll surely take you down;
Judge Nelson'll sentence you,
Then you're jailhouse bound.
Refrain:
O let the Midnight Special
Shine a light on me,
Let the Midnight Special
Shine a evah lovin' light on me!

2 Every Monday mawnin',
When the ding-dong rings,

You go to the table,

See the same damn things;
And on the table,

There's a knife an' pan,
Say anything about it,
Have trouble with a man.

Yondah come Miss Rosy;

Oh, how do you know?

By th' umbrella on her shoulder
An' the dress that she woah!
Straw hat on her head,

Piece of paper in her hand,
Says, "Look here, Mr. Jailer,

I want's my life-time man."

SEVEN LONG YEARS IN STATE PRISON

A convict tells what life has done to him. . . . During the international imbroglio known as
the Spanish-American War, I heard half of this song from a high private in the rear ranks; we went
to Porto Rico and the oftener it rained between Guanica and Utuado, and the worse the mud and
the higher the water in the pup tents at Adjuntas, the more Private Campbell sang "Sad, sad

and lonely." . . . The other half of the song came to me at Denison College, Ohio, twenty-seven
years later.
Arr. A. G. W.
Moderato
= N "pars i ee =
cee Ss ee See SS Ses
Sev - en long years in state pri - son, Sev -en long yearsfor to stay, For

6 sae Ss = ESE or
ee ae era eee |
-o-
knock -ing a mandown the al-ley And tak-ing hisgold watchand chain. .

SS Se ee eee
Ce Ns -! Pir te

CHorvs

a
SS Seales

Sad,. . sad and lone - ly, sit-ting in mycell All a - lone, all a-lone, .

SEVEN LONG YEARS _IN STATE PRISON

= ee Se eee ee

Think-ing of days that's gone ie me, And _ thedayswhen I've done wrong.

Se ------------- se
-~

== i

@: Lae See ee -@ ee
b= Ta ee a ao nS 2: zs -
y
2 I used to have a brother and a sister, 3 I wish I had the wings of a sparrow.
Who lived in a cottage o'er the sea. I wish I had wings for to fly.
I used to have a father and mother, Id fly to the side of my mother
But they are all gone from me. And there let me lay down and die.

WHEN I WAS YOUNG AND FOOLISH
There are sailor and lumberjack, railroad and cowboy versions of this. New York, Atlanta,
and Seattle have local variants. It is sung in jails and outside. The tune is from Albert Richard
Wetjen, of Salem, Oregon, able seaman and story teller.

ae I was young and tool - ish, used to take de sg

Se ee

go to balls and iS - ces, And as out late at a
EIA eaatl

= SS a
---------e

SS oper eel mae Nor rr creel Sst ae eet" ior aos Cet

ee

2 His shoes were neatly polished, 3 As we walked home together,
His hair was neatly combed, I heard the people say,
And when the dance was over, "There goes another girlie,

He asked to see me home. That's being led astray."

BEEN IN THE PEN SO LONG

Three musketeers, regular army men en route to a fort in Texas, learned this in jail in Oklahoma.
They "blued" it in unison, with harmonics, with a chromatic harmonica. They made a Santa Fe
smoking car melodious. . . . A white man's rearrangement of a negro wail such as one recorded in

a publication of the Texas Folk Lore Society.
Arr. A. G. W.

Lugubre, rubato molto

in the pen so _ long. O hon-ey, Ill be long gone,

i aa eM |e SMe
ES - aed aa =
ee Se ar ie oe ES =
a ene ee
SSS SS = SS
- eer = C=
oa SS Se a
-------- === a --
in thepen,Lawd, I got to go a- gain. Béen in the pen ~s0
eee SS
= -= SS
poco f ae
Saas! ee
eS
Re E ES x
oe Serer ers eee
b : =
aes = SS ae
ee ae =
<r, roe
long, O hon-ey, Ill be long gone.
- - cres.
Paes ee eee = Soe
9) pe - = = = = ce al ae
SSS ae
-- >> > >A ec
-~* lbe altel iso a
: a -be-be- qe -- eet -
SS : SS
a

BEEN IN THE PEN SO LONG

Been in the pen so long, Lawd, I got to go a- gain.

-- = a a
sf are bee
sg cS = ot =

: a jtget# BE

Been in the pen so © long, O  hon-ey, Ill be long gone.

Been in the pen so long,

O honey, I'll be long gone,
Been in the pen, Lawd,

I got to go again.

Been in the pen so long,

O honey, I'll be long gone.
Been in the pen so long,
Lawd, I got to go again.
Been in the pen so long,

O honey, I'll be long gone.

THE PREACHER AND THE SLAVE

When Joe Hill, the I. W. W. man, had the death sentence executed on him in Utah while the
World War was on, his loss was mourned by the members of his organization. He was their star
song writer and is the only outstanding producer of lyrics widely sung in the militant cohorts of the
labor movement of America. Jails and jungles from the Lawrence, Massachusetts, woolen mills
to the Wheatland, California, hop fields, have heard the rhymes and melodies started by Joe Hill.
One of them is The Preacher and the Slave, going to the tune of Sweet By and By.

Long-haired preachers comeout ev - 'ry night, Try to tell you what's wrong and what's

right; But when asked how 'bout somethingto eat They will an-swer with voic-es so sweet:

REFRAIN

SSS

You will eat, bye and bye, In ea glo - ri - ous land a-bove the sky;

Work and pray, live on hay, You'll get pie in the sky whenyou die.

1 Long-haired preachers come out every night, Try to tell you what's wrong and what's right;
But when asked how 'bout something to eat They will answer with voices so sweet:

Refrain:
You will eat, bye and bye, In that glorious land above the sky;
Work and pray, live on hay, You'll get pie in the sky when you die.

2 And the starvation army they play, And they sing and they clap and they pray.
Till they get all your coin on the drum, Then they'!! tell you when you're on the bum:

3 Holy Rollers and jumpers come out, And they holler, they jump and they shout:
"Give your money to Jesus," they say, "He will cure all diseases today."

4 If you fight hard for children and wife - Try to get something good in this life -
You're a sinner and bad man, they tell, When you die you will sure go to hell.

5 Workingmen of all countries, unite, Side by side we for freedom will fight:
When the world and its wealth we have gained, To the grafters we'll sing this refrain:

Last Refrain:
You will eat, bye and bye, When you've learned how to cook and to fry;
Chop some wood, 'twill do you good, And you'll eat in the sweet bye and bye.

BLUES, MELLOWS, BALLETS

LEVEE MOAN :

THOSE GAMBLER'S BLUES

GOT DEM BLUES

DE BLUES AIN' NOTHIN'

WHEN A WOMAN BLUE .

COO-COO (PEACOCK SONG)

GREAT GAWD, I'M FEELIN' BAD

O MY HONEY, TAKE ME BACK , ;
WHAT KIN' O' PANTS DOES THE GAMBLER WEAR
JOE TURNER f

TIMES GETTIN' HARD, BOYS

I'M SAD AND I'M LONELY

C. C. RIDER

YOU FIGHT ON

SATAN'S A LIAH

BALLET OF DE BOLL WEEVIL

DE TITANIC

HARMONIZATION BY
Leo Sowerby
Ruth Crawford
Henry Francis Parks
Leo Sowerby
Leo Sowerby
Thorvald Otterstr6m
Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .

Alfred G. Wathall .
Leo Sowerby

Leo Sowerby
Edward Collins
Elizabeth Marshall
Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .

Leo Sowerby

I dare hint delicately that while it is possible that neither the vocalist nor I might derive joy
from singing as singing, yet as a folk-lorist I should experience delight at hearing a folk song put
across in such a way that I could capture it. I urge that as a song hunter I should rather hear a
Negro in the cornfield or on the levee or in a tobacco factory, than to hear Galli-Curci grand-operize.

Dorotuy ScarBorouGH in On the Trail of Negro Folk-Sonas.

LEVEE MOAN

Both Mississippi and Ohio river levees have had versions of this one, which reached up into the
region roundabout Pendleton, Indiana, where it was heard by Lloyd Lewis, the Free Quaker pegged
elsewhere in this book. A sonorous lament, is 'Levee Moan," fully equal to many Gregorian
chants that could be named. Some of its lines assuage the bitterness of our short mortal pilgrimage,
some have an overtone aiming at the world beyond the flesh, while others are rooted amid such plain
realities as the iron pathway of "dat ol' K. C. line."

Quite slow Arr. L. S.

J ee er ee

Ah'm go -in' whah no- bod-y knowsmy name, Lawd,Lawd, Lawd Fawd! Ah'm

SS ee

Ah'm go - in' whah no -

A)

bod-y knowsmah name! Ah'm go -in' whar deydon'tshov-el no snow, Lawd,Lawd,

ae oo 3 = ee eS ae --

Ze

Lawd, Lawd! Ah'm go - in' whah dey don'tshov-el no snow, .. . Ah'm

go - in' whah deydon't shov-el no snow! Ah'm go -in' whah de chill-y winddon't

Sa aa F at SS Seer ee

= spk ane!

oh

[=F = pwr = S.

= Ww

=== ae ------
