This is a bitter ditty of low life, a rhyme of things beyond statistics, epitomized autobiography
wondering what it is laughing at.

Arr. E.

fa - ther he fid - dles for gin, My mo-ther she takes in

wash - ing, My God, how the mon - ey rolls' in

l= eae ee ee

My father he fiddles for gin,

My mother she takes in washing,
My God, how the money rolls in.

381:

I FOUND A HORSESHOE

Railroad switchmen at Illinois and Iowa division points sang this on nights in the 1890's when
their gloves froze to the coupling pins between coal cars, and it was fun to reach a shanty stove.
Paperhangers, icewagon drivers, hash slingers and short order cooks have joined up and
sung it on summer evenings for good people gathered under the Chinese lanterns of a lawn sociable, -
with ice cream served by the Ladies' Aid Society. . . . Henry Joslyn sets it here as a four-part
piece for quartets.

1 I found a horse-shoe, I found a _ horse - shoe. I picked it up and

Basses (Arr) X &
: ee LE ee.
ie Ma
I found a horse-shoe, I found a_horse-shoe. I picked it up and

nailed it on the door; Cand it was rust-y and _ full of nail holes, Good luck 'twill bring to

you for -ev -er- more. ... The man who owned the horse he lived in New York, New

York, The man who owned the horse he lived in New York, New York, The man who owned the

I FOUND A HORSESHOE

(Za
a e 5 8
(=a a ee ol oe os
eo
horse, The man who owned thehorse, The man who owned the horse he lived in New York.

BO gag gl gl gear ose al hats Eg ha
---- = ee
= -s3- se
| | Gb 2b ob c bby
horse, The manwhoownedthehorse,The man who owned thehorse he lived in New York.

1 I found a horseshoe, I found a horseshoe.
I picked it up and nailed it on the door;
And it was rusty and full of nail holes,
Good luck 'twill bring to you forevermore.

2 The man who owned the horse he lived in New York,
The man who owned the horse he lived in New York,
The man who owned the horse,
The man who owned the horse,
The man who owned the horse ':e lived in New York.

3 The horse that wore the shoe his name was Mike,
The horse that wore the shoe his name was Mike,
The horse that wore the shoe,
The horse that wore the shoe,
The horse that wore the shoe his name was Mike.
