"How does the tune go?" a mountaineer was asked about a song. "It's sad-like", was his
reply. . . . Who that has looked at the night stars from under a weeping willow tree, can fail
to find here its saturated mournfulness, almost murmuring, "Pity me, weep with me over what I
had that's gone."" The branches droop with a moist melancholy as though knowing a blessedness
of tears. . . . Variants of this are heard in all states. . . . Itisold. . . . The tune
is from Jake Zeitlin, the text rounded out by verses from R. W. Gordon.

Andante moderato Arr. L. R. G.

O bur . y me be - neath the wil - low,....... Be -

1 O bury me beneath the willow, 4 They told me that he did not love me,
Beneath the weeping willow tree, But how could I believe them true
And when he comes he'!I find me sleeping Until an angel whispered softly,

And perhaps he'll weep for me. "He will prove untrue to you."

2 Tomorrow was our wedding day, 5 Place on my grave a snow-white lily
But God only knows where he is. For to prove my love was true;

He's gone, he's gone to seek another To show the world I died to save him
He no longer cares for me. But his love I could not win.

3 My heart's in sorrow, I'm in trouble, 6 So bury me beneath the willow,
Grieving for the one I love Beneath the weeping willow tree,

For oh, I know I'll never see him And when he comes he'll find me sleeping
Till we meet in Heaven above. And perhaps he'll think of me.

A
MAG'S SONG

The cold winter night, the falling snow, the poor girl outside looking in, the rich man, hard-
hearted and comfortable, letting the girl outside freeze to death: these classic devices of melodrama
are in Mag's Song. Kentuckians and Tennesseans, who formed a considerable part of the early
settlers of Iowa, probably brought this song to that state, where it was heard by Edwin Ford Piper.
It seems to be part of a ballad of thirty or forty stanzas of human woe from the Appalachians. Of
course, farther back, it traces to a broadside or a popular ballad in England or Scotland. By
cutting out all but two verses of this piece, we have the substance of a small melodrama that delivers
swiftly. It erects an immense stage, puts the two chief puppets through their actions, and keeps
"in character" to the finale. Alfred Wathall has created a tumultuous musical setting for it.
The text B is a variant called The Orphan Girl or No Bread for the Poor.

Arr. A. G. W..

Moderato -_

his vel - vet couch, He

from plates of gold; A
