This is arranged from the ballad as sung by Arthur Sutherland and the buccaneers of the
Eclectic Club of Wesleyan University. Sutherland, who is the son of a lawyer in Rochester, New
York, first heard of Alice B. when he was with the American Relief Expedition in Armenia, riding
on top of a box car to Constantinople with a friend who came from New Orleans, Louisiana, and
who in that gulf port one day paid $1.50 to a hobo to sing Alice B. as he, the hobo, had just heard
it a few days previously in Memphis from a negro just arriving from Galveston, Texas. This is
as far back as we have to date traced the Alice B. ballad. Though the verses have wicked and
violent events for a theme, they point a moral and adorn a tale in their conclusion. In a sense it
is propaganda in favor of the Volstead Act.

Arr. A. G. W.
Not too slow
---- SS ee pe
eo td oe -&>-e ww
Oh I'm goin' out West, . . down on the Ri - o Grande, Sing -in'

=D eo @ |
SS
ai

fare-thee, O myhon-ey, O my hon-ey, fare -thee-well!I'm goin' out West, .down

on the Ri-o Grande,

1 I'm goin' out West, down on the Rio Grande,
Singin' fare-thee, O my honey, O my honey, fare-thee-well!
I'm goin' out West, down on the Rio Grande,
And it's fare-thee, O my honey, fare-thee-well!

2 The twenty-fifth of September, Martin F. a man tall and slender,
He was the man who committed that most terrible deed.

On a Sunday morning, with hardly any warning,
He shot and killed his high-brown Alice B.

3 Martin F. was a coward, he run, O how he did run!
In his hand he carried a smokin' forty-one;
He ran up to de co't, says: '"' Judge, I committed that terrible crime,
And now I'm ready for to serve my ninety-and-nine."

4 Alice B. like a baby lay on her dyin' bed.
She says: " Mammy, I want you to take care of my little girl.
Keep her feet from slippin' through, 'cause I love her, 'deed I do,
An' I hopes to meet her in that other worl'."

5 De judge held co't de very next day;
Martin F. refused, absolutely refused, to testify.
He says: " Judge, I killed my baby, my Alice B.,
And now that I killed her I'm all ready to die."

6 'She was a good woman, an' I loved her, 'deed I did.
We had such good times, together all the time;
Till one night I went out, got filled with nigger gin,

meds eb)

An' when I saw her I completely los' my min',

7 Then come all you rounders, an' all you high-browns too,
Take heed to what dis man has done.
You may go out some night, get filled with squirrel rum,
An' do the very same thing that Martin has done.

8 Then I'm goin' out West, down on the Rio Grande,
Singin' fare-thee, O my honey, O my honey, fare-thee-well!
I'm goin' out West, down on the Rio Grande,

Singin' fare-thee, O my honey, fare-thee-well!
