ihe central facts of an immense sea tragedy are here. The main narrative lines of each stanza
cadence a proud ship sailing at high speed, ending with a slow drawn drag, the silence of the empty
sea that follows the "sinkin' down." As a poem, in accuracy of statement, in stresses of details,
and in implicative quality, some would rate this above Longfellow's "Wreck of the Hesperus."
The arrangement here is based on the singing of Miss Bessie Zaban, formerly of Georgia and now of
Chicago; a number of verses were sent to her by C. H. Currie of Atlanta, Georgia. . . The dialect
is imperfectly rendered. Negro troops sang the song crossing the submarine zone and in the
trenches overseas. 'The verses move smoothly, in even pulsations, like the stride of a great ocean
liner with its turbines in good working order. The chorus words '' ocean" and '' Titanic" sway
like a swiftly moving thing abruptly slowed down, struck, staggering and bewildered, while the
words ''sinkin' down" have the grave, quiet suspension of a requiem.

Arr. L. S

De rich folks 'cid - ed to take aie tup On 42 fin - es

es

Out on dat o - o - cean, De great wide o - - cean, De

Sink- in' down! .

1 De rich folks 'cided to take a trip
On de fines' ship dat was ever built.
De cap'n presuaded dese peoples to think
Dis Titanic too safe to sink.

Chorus:

Out on dat ocean,

De great wide ocean,

De Titanic, out on de ocean,
Sinkin' down!

2 De ship lef' de harbor at a rapid speed,
*T wuz carryin' everythin' dat de peeples need.
She sailed six-hundred miles away,
Met an icebug in her way.

83 De ship lef' de harbor, 'twuz runnin' fas'.
'T wuz her fus' trip an' her las'.
Way out on dat ocean wide
An icebug ripped her in de side.

4 Up come Bill from de bottom flo'
Said de water wuz runnin' in de boiler do'.
Go back, Bill, an' shut yo' mouth,
Got forty-eight pumps to keep de water out!

5 Jus' about den de cap'n looked aroun',
He seed de Titanic wuz a-sinkin' down.
He give orders to de mens aroun':
"Get yo' life-boats an' let 'em down!"'

6 De mens standin' roun' like heroes brave,
Nothin' but de wimin an' de chillun to save;
De wimin an' de chillun a-wipin' dere eyes,
Kissin' dere husbands an' friends good-bye.

7 On de fifteenth day of May nineteen-twelve,
De ship wrecked by an icebug out in de ocean dwell.
De people wuz thinkin' o' Jesus o' Nazaree,

While de band played "Nearer My God to Thee!"'

THE GREAT OPEN SPACES

HARMONIZATION BY PAGE
WHEN THE CURTAINS OF NIGHT ARE PINNED BACK : Thorvald Otterstrém é F . 259
WHEN THE WORK'S ALL DONE THIS FALL HT rt Doma enry rh rancs Parks.) clog 2 3260
AS I WALKED OUT IN THE STREETS OF LAREDO . : é , ; : ' i ; 5 Sx0s)
THE DREARY BLACK HIDES 9) re Pt @ Maron Lychenheim 22> 200 O@64
TPMeLOND STAR TRA. Eee Fee) ORCI EL §6eManon daychenhenn » 242 sj. det 5266
WHOOPEE TI YI YO, GIT ALONG, LITTLE DOGIES : f Charles Farwell Edson . j . 268
THE BUFFALO SKINNERS ; : f : ; } . Charles Farwell Edson . re Cag l)
POOR LONESOME COWBOY . : : ; ; ; . Hazel Felman } : : . ORTS
THE TENDERFOOT . ) ; ; ; E ; , . Hazel Felman : ' : . Q@T4
LITTLE AH SID ; : : Pe ee eee SS  Maorinilychenhom: -. we = 32g
Pie RINKAD RRS SM es Me ne el one oe me SAU TCO-GAW Gdns Vg se = eats
DAKOTAvEAND cores, rs + SIPAME AOE VOI yr) DN) DA WAT ed Ga W athaliaounrar ait GE 286
THE FARMER . ; , q ; ; : : . .  Lallian Rosedale Goodman. . 282
RABBLE SOLDIER . ; é : : j 2 . . Hazel Felman : : . 284
THE TRAIL TO MEXICO . : ; : : ; ; : : : : ; : ; : . 286

In only a few instances have I been able to discover the authorship of any song. They seem
to have sprung up as quietly and mysteriously as does the grass on the plains. All have been popular
with the range riders, several being current all the way from Texas to Montana, and quite as long
as the old, old Chisholm Trail stretching between these states. Some of the songs the cowboy
certainly composed; all of them he sang. Obviously, a number of the most characteristic cannot
be printed for general circulation. To paraphrase slightly what Sidney Lanier said of Walt Whit-
man's poetry, they are raw collops slashed from the rump of Nature, and never mind tne gristle.
Likewise some of the strong adjectives and nouns have been softened-Jonahed, as George Meredith
would have said. There is, however, a Homeric quality about the cowboy's profanity and vul-
garity that pleases rather than repulses. The broad sky under which he slept, the limitless plains
over which he rode, the big, open, free life he lived near to Nature's breast, taught him simplicity,
calm, directness. He spoke out plainly the impulses of his heart. But as yet so-called polite society
is not quite willing to hear.

Joun A. Lomax in Cowboy Songs and Ballads,

The big ranches of the West are now being cut up into small farms. The nester has come, and
come to stay. Gone is the buffalo, the Indian warwhoop, the free grass of the open plain;-even
the stinging lizard, the horned frog, the centipede, the prairie dog, the rattlesnake are fast dis-
appearing. Save in some of the secluded valleys of southern New Mexico, the old-time round-up
is no more; the trails to Kansas and Montana have become grass-grown or lost in fields of waving
grain; the maverick steer, the regal longhorn, has been supplanted by his unpoetic but more beefy
and profitable Polled Angus, Durham, and Hereford cousins from across the seas. The changing
and romantic West of the early days lives mainly in story and song. The last figure to vanish is
the cowboy, the animating spirit of the vanishing era. He sits his horse easily as he rides through
a wide valley, enclosed by mountains, clad in the hazy purple of coming aight, with his face turned
steadily down the long, long road, "the road that the sun goes down." Dauntless, reckless, as
gentle to a pure woman as King Arthur, he is truly a knight of the twentieth century. A vagrant
puff of wind shakes a corner of the crimson handkerchief knotted loosely at his throat; the thud
of his pony's feet mingling with the jingle of his spurs is borne back; and as the careless, gracious,
lovable figure disappears over the divide, the breeze brings to the ears, faint and far yet cheery
still, the refrain of a cowboy song:

Whoopee ti yi, git along, little dogies;

It's my misfortune and none of your own.
Whoopee ti yi, git along, little dogies;

For you know Wyoming will be your new home.

Joun A, Lomax in Cowboy Songs and Ballads.

WHEN THE CURTAINS OF NIGHT ARE PINNED BACK

The cowboys of Colorado took a garrulous popular song of the 1870's, and kept a fragment,
the heart's essence of it. It is impressive when sung by a lone horseman silhouetted against a
distant horizon. Given anywhere with ease, feeling, control, it may leave echoes as thin and air-
hung as certain apparitions of a clear night's sky of stars. That is, it holds an honest and independ-
ent poetry. . . . Text and tune are from Jane Ogle of Rock Island, Illinois.

With deliberation

So gee

When the cur-tains of night Are pinned back by the stars, And the

SF PEERS pares oe
ee = 234

aS
Ww
L When the curtains of night 2 When the curtains of night
Are pinned back by the stars, Are pinned back by the stars,
And the beautiful moon sweeps the sky, And the dew drops of heav'n kiss the rose,
I'll remember you, I'll remember you,
Love, Love,
In my prayers. In my prayers.
