Earlier than 1880 patent medicine men and their wagons were traveling. Kickapoo Indian
Sagwa as a spring tonic and Kickapoo Snake Oil for rheumatism and neuralgia were bespoken and
proclaimed by dancing and shouting Indians. The Wizard Oil remedies had their merits sung by
slick-tongued comedians with banjos. Flaring gasoline lamps lighted their faces as the throngs
surged about listening to the promises made to the sick, lame, sore. Harry E. Randall of San
Diego, California, heard the Wizard Oil mountebanks in IIlinois in the late 1870's, and the follow-
ing is a text and air communicated through Neeta Marquis of Los Angeles, California.

Arr. H. F. P.
Like a big city slicker
-- eee
= Sessa 2 ES

love to trav-el far and nearthrough-out my na-tive land;

ened 7

Sa a | ee SSS |

ae Soy Foy Fe

no a scala "yeoman ae SETS

--= SS
a

= SS =
a 7 = an =

to cure all in dis - tress that hap-pen in my _ way,

SS Se
SE a ne bh analog Be Sie x hy ewe

And you bet-ter be-lieve I feel quite fine when folks rush up and _ say:

ae -o O97 €- 4
"Tl take an-oth-er bot-tle of Wiz-ard . Oil, I'll take an-oth-er bot-tle or

mses poe Lae <€ -
= -
gy -0f & = oe
| t= - € i 7
| A
| Fee = a

Ch! I love to travel far and near throughout my native land;

I love to sell as I go "long, and take the cash in hand.

I love to cure all in distress that happen in my way,

And you better believe I feel quite fine when folks rush up and say:

Chorus:
*T'll take another bottle of Wizard Oil,

I'll take another bottle or two;
T'll take another bottle of Wizard Oil,
Ill take another bottle or two."

Now, listen to what I'm going to say, and don't you think I'm jesting
When I tell you for your aches and pains that Wizard Oil's the best thing.
It's healing and it's soothing, it's refreshing and it's thriving,

The proof of which, wherever it's sold the people all are thriving.

Spoken:
That's so! Wherever Wizard Oil is used, the people always thrive. I never get up
to sell the second time in a town but I'm interrupted by the sweet silvery voice of a
young lady or the sonorous tones of a gentleman. They rush up to me with a half-
dollar in their hands and soon I hear their sweet exclamations, which*-sound very
much like:

"T'll take another bottle of Wizard Oil,
I'll take another bottle or two!
I'll take another bottle of Wizard Oil,
I'll take another bottle or two!"

Once while selling way out West in the State of Illinois,

The people all came running up to see what made the noise.

The merchants laughed in their counting rooms, the farmers laughed a-hoeing.
Amongst the rest a Dutchman came, a-puffing and a-blowing.

Spoken:
"Mein Gottin Himmel, vot a country und vot a peoples! Stab me in the back mit a
double-barrelled bootjack, he's the same man I saw in Chicago last week! I buys von
bottle of oil of him, I takes him home, und py dam, he's good stuff! So...

"T''ll take another bottle of Wizard Oil,
I'll take another bottle or two!
I'll take another bottle of Wizard Oil,
T'll take another bottle or two!"

Soon after this a lady came up, just fresh from the Em'rald Isle.

Says she, "Mister, if you will, Pll spake wid you a while!"

Says I, "Certainly, madam, don't be afraid. Let's hear what you have to say.
Are you sick, or lame, or going blind, or what's the matter, I pray?"

Spoken:
"No, no, it's me husband, bad luck to the lazy divil! Divil the bit of work has he
done for the past six months. He lies in bed till ten in the mornin', and I think your
oil a profitable quality to pull the lazy divil out of bed. So...

"T'll take another bottle of Wizard Oil,
T'll take another bottle or two!
T'll take another bottle of Wizard Oil,
I'll take another bottle or two!"

TARNISHED LOVE TALES or COLONIAL AND
REVOLUTIONARY ANTIQUES

HARMONIZATION BY PAGE
BARBRA ALLEN ; ; 2 : ' ' ; : 5 2 ; ; : ; é : ' 57
THE FROZEN GIRL . . : : . ; : 5 ; : : ; : : : ; ; 58
PRETTY POLLY , E A ' ; : ; . ; ; : : : : : ; : 60
COMMON? BILE. 4) OF Pin eyciniy Bimes ooo, |. Vidi freds Gk Mathalls, auee oc) parcn§2
LITTLE SCOTCH-EE . F ; ' ; ' : : : ; i 2 f ; ; : 64
THE HOUSE CARPENTER : ' ' ; ' ; ; : ' , ; : é : : 66
A PRETTY FAIR MAID. y : : : . : . Elizabeth Marshall ; i Jo0368
LORD LOVEL . : 5 5 : ; : F : F : : : ' ; F é : 70
THE QUAKER'S WOOING ; 7 : : : ' 4 ; i : ' ' veel

THE MAID FREED FROM THE GALLOWS 5 c : 5 " 9 . 0 . ° A 5 72

It may be considered remarkable, that it was not till English literature had reached its highest
point of refinement-it was not until the days of Addison and Pope, or, still later, of Gray and
Goldsmith-that the rude ballad poetry of the people became an object of interest to the learned.
In the Spectator, Addison first drew the attention of what was then called the "polite world" to
the merits of the ballad of Chevy-Chase; but he did so in the apologetic strain of one who was
fully prepared for the said world being surprised at him taking under his protection anything so
vulgar, or even humble. He introduces the ballad much in the manner that the fastidious yet
generous Guy Mannering may be supposed to have introduced to his lettered friends the hearty
borderer, Dandie Dinmont, with his spattered jack-boots and shaggy drednought:-there was no
denying the rough and startling exterior, but many excellent qualities were to be found under it.
Up to this time, the traditionary ballads of the country were held to be of so rude a character as
to be scarcely amenable to the rules of literary criticism; no historical value seems to have been
attached to them; and with the exception of some plodding Pepys, who, for his own gratification,
stitched and preserved his "Penny Garlands," no endeavor was made to rescue them from the
perishable breath of oral tradition, or the fragile security of the pedlar's broadside.

ALEXANDER WHITELAW in Book of Scottish Ballads.

The handing on of songs by oral tradition has become more and more curtailed. It is far from
extinct, and it is not to be expected that it will ever completely die out from the human race; but
with the spread of literacy, the increasing circulation of printed matter, the introduction of phono-
graphs, and the removal of old-time isolation, through the agency of railroads, automobiles, and
(in these days) of airplanes, the singing of traditional songs plays a lessened role.

American folk-song as a whole has been imported from the Old World. This is becoming less
true, but it still holds. Folk-songs are still brought across the Atlantic by newcomers; and a large
percentage of the most striking and persistent pieces current in America are derived from Old
World originals, English, Scottish, or Irish. Many survive which were brought over long ago, or
they enter in new form with some shipload of immigrants. Songs recently imported still win foot-
hold and then wander from community to community.

Lovisre Pounp in American Songs and Ballads.

BARBRA ALLEN

Hard-hearted Barbra Allen is a girl who figures in hundreds of ballads. In nearly all of them
Willie dies for love of her and she, with a wasted heart, goes into the grave beside him. That is the
story. But the last verse has a sequel. The rose rises from one grave, the briar from the other;
the two climb to the top of the old church tower and there intertwine. So ends the story. It has
_ been told and sung in hundreds of dialects. Usually the tune is stale, flat, monotonous. The one
given here has long been a favorite of mine and the friend who gave it to me, H. L. Davis, the Oregon
poet who came from the mountains of Georgia. The text is from the R. W. Gordon collection.
Sometimes, in the singing of this song, I get the feel of old, gnarled, thornapple trees and white crab-
apple blossoms printed momentarily on a blue sky, of evanescent things, of the paradox of tender
and cruel forces operating together in life. Perhaps something of that paradox working in the hearts
of people has kept the Barbra Allen story alive and singing through three centuries and more.

In Lon-don Cit-y where I once did dwell,there's where I got my learn-ing, I

eet ee =a

fell in love withapret-ty young girl, Her name was' Bar - bra AI - len.

1 In London City where I once did dwell, there's where I got my learning,
I fell in love with a pretty young girl, her name was Barbra Allen.

2 I courted her for seven long years, she said she would not have me;
Then straightway home as I could go and liken to a dying.

3 I wrote her a letter on my death bed, I wrote it slow and moving;
"Go take this letter to my old true love and tell her I am dying."

4 She took the letter in her lily-white hand, she read it slow and moving;
"Go take this letter back to him, and tell him I am coming."

5 As she passed by his dying bed she saw his pale lips quivering;
"No better, no better I'll ever be until I get Barbra Allen."

6 As she passed by his dying bed; "' You're very sick and almost dying,
No better, no better you will ever be, for you can't get Barbra Allen."

7 As she went down the long stair steps she heard the death bell toning,
And every bell appeared to say, "'Hard-hearted Barbra Allen!"

8 As she went down the long piney walk she heard some small birds singing,
And every bird appeared to say, "'Hard-hearted Barbra Allen!"

9 She looked to the East, she looked to the West, she saw the pale corpse coming
"Go bring them pale corpse unto me, and let me gaze upon them.
10 Oh, mama, mama, go make my bed, go make it soft and narrow!
Sweet Willie died today for me, I'll die for him tomorrow!"

11 They buried Sweet Willie in the old church yard, they buried Miss Barbra beside him;
And out of his grave there sprang a red rose, and out of hers a briar.

12 They grew to the top of the old church tower, they could not grow any higher,
They hooked, they tied in a true love's knot, red rose around the briar.
