This old song heard at the water tanks of railroads in Kansas in 1897 and from harvest hands
who worked in the wheat fields of Pawnee County, was picked up later by the I. W. W.'s, who
made verses of their own for it, and gave it a wide fame. The migratory workers are familiar with
the Salvation Army missions, and have adopted the Army custom of occasionally abandoning all
polite formalities and striking deep into the common things and ways for their music and words.
A "handout" is food handed out from a back door as distinguished from "'a sit down" which means
an entrance into a house and a chair at a table.

Arr. H. J.

Not too fast
of daft Seerces Se ee
fax b: i

2s aaa |. REESE!
ee ee
as -_ ' F =a erat

Oh, why don't you work Like oth-er men do? Howthehell can I work When there's

no work to do? Hal-le - lu-jah, 'm a bum, Hal-le - lu - jah,bum a -

gain, Hal-le -lu - jah, give us a hand-out, To re- vive us a- gain! gain!

1 Oh, why don't you work 4 I went to a house,
Like other men do? And I knocked on the door;
How the hell can I work A lady came out, says,
When there's no work to do? "You been here before."
Hallelujah, I'm a bum, Hallelujah, etc.

Hallelujah, bum again,
Hallelujah, give us a handout,

; , 5 I went to a house,
To revive us again.

And I asked for a piece of bread;

2 Oh, I love my boss A lady came out, says,
And my boss loves me, "The baker is dead."
And that is the reason Hallelujah, ete.

I'm so hungry,

Hallelujah, ete. inti
allerujan; eve 6 When springtime does come,

3 Oh, the springtime has came O won't we have fun,
And I'm just out of jail, We'll throw up our jobs
Without any money, And we'll go on the bum.
Without any bail. Hallelujah, ete.

Hallelujah, ete.

TRAMP, TRAMP, TRAMP, KEEP ON A-TRAMPING

When W. P. Webb asked two hobos in the lockup in Cuero, Texas, "Where you from?" one
shrugged his shoulders and said, "Oh, everywhere. We've been from the Atlantic to the Pacific, so
we can't say where we're from."" Then came an afterthought, "We been everywhere looking for
work, and - never able to find it."". In Denver they had picked up an I. W. W. song to the tune of
Tramp, Tramp, Tramp, the Boys are Marching.

He walked up and down the street 'till the shoes fell off his feet,
Across the street he spied a lady cooking stew. And he said, "How do you do,
May I chop some wood for you?" But what the lady told him made him feel so blue.
