An old English song is revamped in American colleges. Spoken final lines are improvised, as
follows, "The Q is silent as in electricity," or "The bee is not mentioned as in bumble or honey,"
and so on.

Allegretto grazioso

A boy, he had an au ~-_ ger, It bored twoholes at once; A

~~ s
et

mf Staccato atarers e = if ba ee om a

boy, he had an au - ger, It bored two holes at once; And some were eat - ing

| pop - corn, And some were eat-ing pick-les. (And the G is si-lent asin "Fish.'')
. =>

-

It bored two holes at once;

It bored two holes at once;

And some were eating pop-corn,

And some were eating pickles-
Spoken (And the G is silent as in " Fish.'')

ABDUL, THE BULBUL AMEER

When the Ahkoond of Swat passed away after a lingering illness, his last words were a message
of felicitation to Abdul the Bulbul Ameer, his kinsman and host, that the reign and sway of that
potentate might be long, illustrious, and filled with deeds of distinguished valor. This wish would
have come true, in all likelihood, but for the sudden and dramatic entrance on the scene of Ivan
Petruski Skivah, whose knife proved superior to the chibouque in the culmination of the violent
conflict, the finish contest, or knockdown and dragout affair, as one might say, which ensued between
these two bitter opponents in classical Janguage and diplomatic procedure. . . . Of the victor's
Muscovite morganatic bride, little is known save the fact that while prone on her couch and fast
in the arms of Morpheus she was heard frequently to pronounce the words "Ivan Petruski Skivah."

The song in which is enshrined this legend of two embittered opponents, is a familiar of
robustuous and grandiloquent men in both metropolitan centers of urban activity and in wilderness
outposts of the Northwest Mounted, so to speak; it is vocalized con amore equally well in tuxedo
vest, flannel shirt or duck canvas pants. . . . Asa serial tale it creates a climax which is hoist
by its own petard . . . The plot gets thicker and thicker till it runs out of gas, discombobu-
lates, and leaves two stuffed shirts in the wind.

Arr A{G OW.

Con moto

The sons of the Proph-et are hard-y and bold, And

« . < Fa staccato
Ls =
a £3.
f °)
aay ae a ieee I
(07-0 4 x i aaa ee St Gay SSsck =
7 7, eet S27 ot Ss

ABDUL, THE BULBUL AMEER

Rede wy rere. 5 Or to storm a_ re - doubt, they straight-way sent out For

eee ee

Ab - dul, the Bul-bul A - meer,...

-.

ABDUL, THE BULBUL AMEER

1 The sons of the Prophet are hardy and bold,

And quite unaccustomed to fear;

But of all, the most reckless of life or of limb,
Was Abdul, the Bulbul Ameer.

When they wanted a man to encourage the van,
Or to shout "'Hull-a-loo!"' in the rear,

Or to storm a redoubt, they straightway sent out
For Abdul, the Bulbul Ameer,
For Abdul, the Bulbul Ameer,

2 There are heroes in plenty and well-known to fame

In the ranks that are led by the Czar;

But among the most reckless of name or of fame
Was Ivan Petruski Shivah.

He could imitate Irving, play euchre or pool,
And perform on the Spanish guitar;

In fact, quite the cream of the Muscovite team,
Was Ivan Petruski Skivah.

3 One morning the Russian had shouldered his gun

And put on his most cynical sneer,

When, going down town, he happened to run
Into Abdul, the Bulbul Ameer.

Said the Bulbul, "Young man, is your life then so dull,
That you're anxious to end your career?

For, infidel, know that you've trod on the toe
Of Abdul, the Bulbul Ameer.

4 Said the Russian, "'My friend, your remarks in the end

Will only prove futile, I fear;

For I mean to imply that you're going to die,
Mr. Abdul, the Bulbul Ameer."

The Bulbul then drew out his trusty chibouque,
And, shouting out "Allah Aklar,"

Being also intent upon slaughter he went
For Ivan Petruski Skivah.

5 When, just as the knife was ending his life-
In fact, he had shouted "Huzza!"-
He found himself struck by that subtle Calmuck,
Bold Ivan Petruski Skivah.
There's a grave where the wave of the blue Danube flows,
And on it, engraven so clear,

Is, 'Stranger, remember to pray for the soul
Of Abdul, the Bulbul Ameer."

6 Where the Muscovite maiden her vigil doth keep

By the light of the true lover's star,

The name she so tenderly murmurs in sleep
Is "Ivan Petruski Skivah."'

The sons of the Prophet are hardy and bold;
And quite unaccustomed to fear;

But of all, the most reckless of life or of limb,
Was Abdul, the Bulbul Ameer.
