Sometimes it happens that a maudlin, drivelling song published elaborately as sheet music
undergoes a transformation. It mellows and sweetens as it is passed on and sung in new ways.
Harsh contours are worn down, jagged edges smoothed. This is the case with "Three Grains of
Corn." I have an 1848 original of the sheet music; it is long; it prolongs desolation beyond endur-
ance or healthy art. The latter quality is not found in the variants known among midwest pioneers.
Of several versions, the most appealing to me is one from the Franz Rickaby collection, communicated
by Mrs. C. A. Yoder of Bloomington, Indiana. . I have gone to this song in certain moods and found
it sickly with melancholy, not worth singing. Again, in other moods, I have gone to it and found it
a gaunt little human drama with a melody carrying some of the tone color of dark, vivid Irish hearts.

SS SS

Give me three grainsof corn, moth-er, On - ly three grains of corn. "Twill

= =
==: <<

keep this lit - tle life I have Till the com - ing of the morn.

1 Give me three grains of corn, mother 5 Oh, how can I look to you, mother,
Only three grains of corn. Oh, how can I look to you
*Twill keep what little life I have For bread to feed your starving child
Till the coming of the morn. When you are starving too?

2 For I'm dying of hunger and cold, mother 6 For I read the famine on your cheek

Dying of hunger and cold, And in your eyes so wild,
And the agony of such a death And I felt it in your bony hand
My lips have never told. When you laid it on your child.

3 Oh, what has old Ireland done, mother, 7 It has gnawed like a wolf at my heart, mother
Oh, what has old Ireland done, A wolf that was fierce for blood,
That the world looks on and sees them starve, All the livelong day and the night beside,
Perishing one by one? Gnawing for lack of food.

4 There is many a brave heart, mother, 8 I dreamed of bread in my sleep, mother,
That is dying of hunger and cold, The sight was heaven to see.
While only across the channel, mother, I awoke with an eager and famishing lip
Thousands are rolling their gold. And you had no bread for me.

4)
