What the poet meant in his mention of "the short and simple annals of the poor," is fairiy well
delivered in the specific case told of here. It is a story sure of its main facts. Radio Mack of San
Francisco, of the regular army and of western cattle ranches, communicated the tune and verses.

Arr. H. F. P.

[JS

A group of jol - ly cow- boys, dis - cus - sing plans at ease, Says

------
a oe

~-o-

quast guitar

AS a= =

one," I'll tell you some-thing, boys, if you will lis-ten,please. I am an old cow-punch-er and

hyer ['mdress'din rags, I used to be a toughone and go _ ongreat big jags.
--- SS SS
jo - |\S--- g® -_ yo --____-_ o-
oe Ps ¢ 2 £ #3

ve ------- ros ------
oe

eee SPAS, HES -----s =a
a ee eS

got a home, boys, a good one, you all know, Al -

eek are a ane eae Se
ih See Sie aE a =e =

though I have not seen it since long,long a-go. Pm_ go-ing back to Dix-ie once

(== =a es
= ee es
+ Py ee ss £ £ =

ee : -
ee SS
~G oe we vw i

SS SS al

more to seethemall, Yes,I'm go-ing to see my moth-er when the work's all done this fall.

ee aEeal

Or

A group of jolly cowboys, discussing plans at ease,

Says one, "'I'll tell you something, boys, if you will listen, please.

I am an old cow-puncher and hyer I'm dressed in rags,

I used to be a tough one and go on great big jags.

But I have got a home, boys, a good one, you all know,

Although I have not seen it since long, long ago.

I'm going back to Dixie once more to see them all,

Yes, I'm going to see my mother when the work's all done this fall.

"After the round-up's over and after the shipping's done,

I am going right straight home, boys, ere all my money is gone.

I have changed my ways, boys, no more will I fall;

And I am going home, boys, when the work's all done this fall.
When I left home, boys, my mother for me cried,

Begged me not to go, boys, for me she would have died;

My mother's heart is breaking, breaking for me, that's all,

And with God's help I'll see her when the work's all done this fall."

That very night this cowboy went out to stand his guard;
The night was dark and cloudy and storming very hard;
The cattle they got frightened and rushed in wild stampede,
The cowboy tried to head them, riding at full speed.

While riding in the darkness so loudly did he shout,

Trying his best to head them and turn the herd about,

His saddle horse did stumble and on him did fall,

The poor boy won't see his mother when the work's all done this fall.

His body was so mangled the boys all thought him dead,
They picked him up so gently and laid him on a bed;

He opened wide his blue eyes and looking all around

He motioned to his comrades to sit near him on the ground.
"Boys, send my mother my wages, the wages I have earned,
For I am afraid, boys, my last steer I have turned.

I'm going to a new range, I hyear my Master's call,

And I'll not see my mother when the work's all done this fall.

"Bill, you may have my saddle; George, you may take my bed;
Jack may have my pistol, after I am dead.

Boys, think of me kindly when you look upon them all,

For Ill not see my mother when the work's all done this fall."
Poor Charlie was buried at sunrise, no tombstone at his head,
Nothing but a little board and this is what it said,

"Charlie died at daybreak, he died from a fall,

The boy won't see his mother when the work's all done this fall."
