DRIVING SAW-LOGS ON THE PLOVER
MORRISSEY AND THE RUSSIAN SAILOR
MULE SKINNER'S SONG .

HARMONIZATION BY

Alfred G. Wathall .

Charles Farwell Edson .

Marion Lychenheim

Chotles Farwell Edson .

Henry Francis Parks

PAGE

Science, invention, new machinery, the I. W. W., the Y. M. C. A., phonograph, radio, movies,
and welfare organizations, have changed logging camp conditions, so that singing and singers are
not what they used to be. The old-time shanty boy in Michigan, Wisconsin and Minnesota, is gone.
Franz Rickaby walked across the old lumber region from Charlevoix, Michigan, to Grand Forks,
North Dakota, one summer, carrying a violin and a packsack, stopping where night found him,
playing his violin and asking people, "What are the old songs you sing here?" And the ballads he
picked up were all from old men. The pioneer lumberjacks cut the trees that made the frame
houses of pioneer prairie farmers. Rickaby met W. N. Allen of Wausau, Wisconsin, who sang of
the cut-down pine tree made into sawlogs, sent on a river to a mill, and of how

"Then they'll sell you to some farmer

To keep his wife and children warmer.
With his team he'll haul you home

To the prairie drear and lone.

Into a prairie house he'll make you,

Where the prairie winds will shake you.
There'll be little rest for thee,

O ye noble Big Pine Tree.

The prairie winds will sing around you.

The hail and sleet and snow will pound you,
And shake and wear and bleach your bones,
On the prairie drear and lone."

Still other conditions have changed. In Stewart Edward White's "The Blazed Trail" an old
timer says, "The towns of Bay City and Saginaw alone in 1878 supported over fourteen hundred
tough characters. Block after block was devoted entirely to saloons. In a radius of three hundred
feet from the famous old Catacombs could be numbered forty saloons where drinks were sold by
from three to ten 'pretty waiter girls." When the boys struck town, the proprietors and waitresses
stood in their doorways to welcome them. . . . If Jack resisted temptation and walked reso-
lutely on, one of the girls would remark audibly to another, 'He ain't no lumberjack! You can
see that easy 'nuff. He's just off the hay trail'. Ten to one that brought him."

Rickaby's "Ballads and Songs of the Shanty-Boy"' has in it the big woods silence, the spray of
white water, the roar of log jams, besides many things brawny, reeking and raucous out of the bunk-
house. He understood rough men, their rough work, words, weather. He was the first to put the
singing lumberjack into an adequate document and book. Of the logging camp fiddler it was
remarked, "He gets the swing of the tune and then plays it to suit himself." and to this Rickaby adds:
"Getting the swing of the melody of a song, and then bending both melody and words into satis-
factory union, is fundamental in folk-song. The singing of a ballad is a free and unconfined process.
The story is the clear unmortgaged possession of the personality whose lips happen to be forming
it at the time; word and note must serve, but they must not get in the way. Thus it is that a
singer, in three successive renditions of the same line, may sing it no twice alike. Not only may the
melody vary slightly, but 'they' may become 'we,' 'though' may become 'although,' 'Willie' may
become 'William,' or even another person entirely. "Oh' may be omitted, or supplied; or 'it's'
or 'then' or 'now'; and so on through a hundred similar or greater possibilities. This may all
sound slovenly and unkempt to the conscious artist; but in the realm of popular balladry, until
one does it, the ballad is not truly his."

JAMES WHALAND

Slow, ponderous, inevitable, this proceeds like a witness whose testimony is unshakable. He
saw what he tells, knows how it happened, and is sure itis the truth. . . . Edwin Ford Piper of
the University of Iowa, heard this in the 1890's from farmhands who had been up in a Minnesota
logging camp.

Arr. A. G. W.

Moderato con moto. Lugubre
i) Sees eee
ee Oe ad
oe -o-

Come all you brave young shan-ty-boys, I pray you all draw near,.... 'Tis

lo
Fc is ee

Se
ae uae cme

1 Come all you brave young shanty-boys, 4 As they were rolling off the logs,
I pray you all draw near, Young Whaland made a shout:
Tis of a frightful accident "To shore, to shore, my shanty-boys,
That I would have you hear. The jam is going out!"

2 'Tis of a young and comely youth, 5 Those mighty logs went end on end,
James Whaland he was called, With fearful crashing sound,
Got drownded from Le Claron's raft, And when the shanty-boys looked back,
All on the upper falls. Young Whaland had gone down.

3 The water being in its raging course, 6 The foaming waters tore and tossed
The river rolling high, The logs from shore to shore,
When the foreman to young Whaland said, And here and there his body lies,
"The jam you'll have to try." A-tumbling o'er and o'er.

$89

THE SHANTY-MAN'S LIFE

Franz Rickaby heard from an old shanty-boy, A. C. Hannah at Bimidji, Minnesota, the same
tune that John Lomax met in Texas. The cowpuncher of the southwestern plains and the lumber-
jack of the north woods strung on the same old Irish melody verses telling of similar troubles and
like gaiety. Though they have "a wearisome life"' it is "void of all slavish fear."

Arr. C. F. E.

Oh, ashanty-man's life is a wearisome life, although some think it

THE SHANTY-MAN'S LIFE

blow, And as soon as the day-light doth ap - pear, to the wild woods we must go.

1 Oh, a shanty-man's life is a wearisome life, although some think it void of care,
Swinging an ax from morning till night in the midst of the forests so drear.
Lying in the shanty bleak and cold while the cold stormy wintry winds blow,
And as soon as the daylight doth appear, to the wild woods we must go.

2 Oh, the cook rises up in the middle of the night saying, "Hurrah, brave boys, it's day."
Broken slumbers ofttimes are passed as the cold winter night whiles away.
Had we rum, wine or beer our spirits for to cheer as the days so lonely do dwine,
Or a glass of any shone while in the woods alone for to cheer up our troubled minds.

3 But when spring it does set in, double hardships then begin, when the waters are piercing cold,
And our clothes are dripping wet and fingers benumbed, and our pike-poles we scarcely can hold.
Betwixt rocks, shoals and sands give employment to all hands our well-banded raft for to steer,
And the rapids that we run, oh, they seem to us but fun, for we're void of all slavish fear.

4 Oh, a shanty lad is the only lad I love, and I never will deny the same.
My heart doth scorn these conceited farmer boys who think it a disgraceful name.
They may boast about their farms, but my shanty-boy has charms so far, far surpassing them all,
Until death it doth us part he shall enjoy my heart, let his riches be great or small.

PS Vl ) :)

y zs KN Nh i Uh

FLAT RIVER GIRL

A member of the Great Lakes Seamen's Union sang this for me at the Union headquarters in
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, when I was marine editor of a newspaper. Later I found the same tune
going to a prison song, Cousin Nellie, and to part of the cowboy song, When The Work's All Done
This Fall. . . . Rickaby gives four texts and tunes to this piece, one old timer saying the Flat
River flows through Greenville, Michigan, and "Jack Haggerty was a lumberjack and from a man
who used to run a livery stable and rent him horses I learned that he was not quite so rough as most
of those birds, and was a little more dressy."

wom - an; you're lost

-~

2 : = mes ial Day
AT r = "a ; an Ses
= a SetarG
ee ee = ae ; ww 5 et

FLAT RIVER GIRL

eS SSS SS =

think of Jack Hag - ger - ty and his Flat Riv - er _ girl.

1 Come all you fine young fellow with hearts so warm and true,
Never believe in a woman; you're lost if you do.
But if you ever see one with long brown chestnut curls,
Just think of Jack Haggerty and his Flat River girl.

2 Her form was like the dove, so slender and so neat,
Her long brown chestnut curls hung to her tiny feet,
Her voice it was like music or murmurs of the breeze
As she whispered that she loved me as we strolled among the trees.

3 She was a blacksmith's daughter from the Flat River side,
And I always had intended for to make her my bride;
But one day on the river a letter I received:

She said that from her promise herself she had relieved.

4 To her mother, Jane Tucker, I lay all the blame.
She caused her to leave me and to blacken my name.
I counted her my darling, what a lady for a wife!
When I think of her treachery it nearly takes my life.

5 Come all you fine young fellows with hearts so warm and true.
Never believe in a woman; you're lost if you do.
But if you ever see one with long brown chestnut curls,
Just think of Jack Haggerty and his Flat River girl.

On a melodious winter evening in Salem, Oregon, Charles Olaf Olsen, logger and poet, was
asked to tell a lie that had few words and much imagination. He said, "Once there was a logger

who had a trunk." . . . Then James Stevens, logger and author, sang "The Jam on. Gerry's
Rock," sonorously, rockingly, beating time with a sure, unfailing foot that slammed the floor with
accurate measures. . . . It is a heavy, brooding ballad, portentous as a log boom on an ice

locked river. . . . Rickaby, in an extended note, says it was born in Canada or Michigan, with
the odds of witnesses in favor of Michigan. He observes, "Old fellows told me anyone starting
Gerry's Rock in the shanties was summarily shut off because the song was sung to death; others
vow that of all songs it was ever and always the most welcome." . . . "Deacon seat" was
shanty lingo for a seat, or board, extending from the lower tier of bunks and running square or
oblong around the bunkhouse; it was where they sat between suppertime and bedtime and smoked,
talked, sang, and told Paul Bunyan stories.

Come all ye true-born shan-ty-boys, wher-ev-er you may be, Come sit ye on the

(= a Se

dea-con seat and lis-ten un - to" me. I'll sing the jam on Ger-ry's Rock and a

he - ro you should know, The bravest of all shan-ty-boys, the foreman, Young Mun-ro.

1 Come all ye true-born shanty-boys, wherever you may be,
Come sit ye on the deacon seat and listen unto me.
I'll sing the jam on Gerry's Rock and a hero you should know,
The bravest of all shanty-boys, the foreman, Young Munro.

2 'Twas on a Sunday morning, ere daylight did appear.
The logs were piling mountain-high: we could not keep them clear.
"Cheer up! Cheer up, my rivermen, relieve your hearts of woe!
We'll break the jam on Gerry's Rock!" cried our foreman, Young Munro.

8 Now some of them were willing, while others hid from sight.
To break a jam on Sunday they did not think it right.
Till six of our brave shanty-boys did volunteer to go
And break the jam on Gerry's Rock with our foreman, Young Munro.

4 'They had not picked off many logs till Munro to them did say,
"I must send you back up the drive, my boys, for the jam will soon give wav
Alone he freed the key-log then, and when the jam did go
it carried away on the boiling-flood our foreman, Young Munro.

5 Now when the boys up at the camp the news they came to hear,
In search of his dead body down the river they did steer;
And there they found to their surprise, their sorrow, grief and woe,
All bruised and mangled on the beach, lay the corpse of Young Munro.

6 They picked him up most tenderly, smoothed down his raven hair.
There was one among the watchers whose cries did rend the air.
The fairest lass of Saginaw let tears of anguish flow;
But her moans and cries could not awake her true love, Young Munro.

7 The Missus Clark, a widow, lived by the riverside;
This was her only daughter, Munro's intended bride.
So the wages of her perished love the boss to her did pay
And a gift of gold was sent to her by the shanty-boys next day.

8 When she received the money she thanked them tearfully,
But it was not her portion long on the earth to be;
For it was just six weeks or so when she was called to go
And the shanty-boys laid her at rest by the side of Young Munro.

9 They decked the graves most decently-'twas on the fourth of May-
Come al] ye true-born shanty-boys and for a comrade pray!
Engraven on a hemlock tree which by the beach did grow,
Are the name and date of the mournful fate of the foreman, Young Munro.
