poor girl stood on _ the

ritard - 'molto = a

sff 0 ff staccatissimo

-- f dramatico molto __- - Spee

as He de-scend-ed to fier - y Hell casper tes

a
The poor girl lay in an _ an - gel's arms...

eo

= SS ee > = => > > &
° ° . se

1 The rich man lay on his velvet couch,
He ate from plates of gold;
A poor girl stood on the marble step,
And cried, "'So cold, so cold!''

2 Three years went by and the rich man died;
He descended to fiery hell;
The poor girl lay in an angel's arms

And sighed, "All's well-all's well!'

B
THE ORPHAN GIRL or NO BREAD FOR THE POOR

1 "No home, no home," cried an orphan girl
At the door of a princely hall,
As she trembling stood on the polished steps
And leaned on the marble wall.

2 Her clothes were torn and her head was bare
And she tried to cover her feet
With her dress that was tattered and covered with snow,
Yes, covered with snow and sleet.

3 Her dress was thin and her feet were bare
And the snow had covered her head.
"Oh, give me a home," she feebly cried,
""A home and a piece of bread."

4 "My father, alas, I never knew."
' Tears dimmed the eyes so bright.
**My mother sleeps in a new-made grave,
*Tis an orphan that begs to-night."

5 "TI must freeze," she cried as she sank on the steps
And strove to cover her feet
With her ragged garments covered with snow,
Yes, covered with snow and sleet.

6 The rich man lay on his velvet couch
And dreamed of his silver and gold
While the orphan girl in her bed of snow
Was murmuring, "So cold, so cold."

7 The night was dark and the snow fell fast
As the rich man closed his door,
And his proud lips curled with scorn as he said,
"No bread, no room, for the poor."

8 The morning dawned but the orphan girl
Still lay at the rich man's door
And her soul had fled to that home above
Where there's bread and room for the poor.

IGOT A GAL AT THE HEAD OF THE HOLLER

This arrangement of Sourwood Mountain is based chiefly on one from Mary Leaphart. Com-
pany square dances, hoedowns, shindigs, or individual clogs and shuffles, work out to this tune.
A yodel in steady staccato, a piece of mountain born pleasantry and jubilation, it is out of the
human cloth from which Tom Jefferson wrote, "All men are free and equal", and should not be
interfered with "in the pursuit of happiness." Those who make a song like this don't care a hoot
whether it is called good music. Their answer to any criticism might be, " Ho-dee-ink-tum-diddle-
ah-de-day." . . . This Kentucky version may trace to North Carolina mountains where
R. W. Gordon heard a verse as follows:

I have a lover in Sourwood,

She's gone cripply and blind,

She broke the heart of many a poor feller
But she ain't broke this'n of mine.

I got a gal at the head of the hol-ler, Ho -dee-ink-tum - did-dle-ah-dee-day;
