CAP'N I BELIEVE , _ ; ; ' ;
JAY GOULD'S DAUGHTER AND ON THE CHARLIE SO LONG
CASEY JONES : : : '

MAMA HAVE YOU HEARD THE NEWS?

DON' LET YO' WATCH RUN DOWN ;
THERE'S MANY A MAN KILLED ON THE RAILROAD
SHE'LL BE COMIN' ROUND THE MOUNTAIN

I WENT DOWN TO THE DEPOT : :
EVER SINCE UNCLE JOHN HENRY BEEN DEAD .
GO 'WAY F'OM MAH WINDOW

MY LULU . 3 : ' 2 " 2 ;
THE WIND IT BLEW UP THE RAILROAD TRACK
HOG-EYE : : 2 : ,

MY SISTER SHE WORKS IN A LAUNDRY

I FOUND A HORSE SHOE

RAILROAD BILL

HANGMAN .

TIMBER

HARMONIZATION BY
Marion Lychenheim
Leo Sowerby
Henry Francis Parks
Arthur Farwell
Hazel Felman

H azel Felman
R. Emmet Kennedy
Harry Gilbert .

Hazel Felman
Hazel Felman
Marion Lychenheim
Hazel Felman
Leo Sowerby :
Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .
Hazel Felman
Henry Joslyn ;
Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .

PAGE

The wish to gather and preserve popular song may be viewed as accompanying or growing
out of the trend toward democracy. It parallels for literary history the change taking place in the
history of society in general. Since the eighteenth century the attention of political thinkers has
descended through the various strata of society until the lowest strata are now in the foreground
of interest. It has often been pointed out that contemporary historians endeavor to chronicle
the common man as well as the hero. The lowly may now serve as central characters in fiction
and drama which were once concerned solely with patricians. Similarly, the interest of literary
historians and of students and readers has extended downward from the masterpiece till it embraces
the humble and unrecorded literature of the folk.

Lovutsr Pownp in American Songs and Ballads.

BOLSUM BROWN

Who he was, this Bolsum Brown, and who she was, the Sister Mary referred to, we do not know.
And nobody cares. But the song passes the time among the people who work for a living.

Arr. M. L.

There's a_ red light on the track for Bolsum Brown, For Bolsum Brown, for Bolsum

Brow Die ee. 2 There's a red light on the track, and _ it'll be

there when he comes back, There's a red light on the track for Bol - sum Brown.

1 There's a red light on the track for Bolsum 2 Hop along, Sister Mary, hop along,

Brown, Hop along, hop along.
For Bolsum Brown, for Bolsum Brown. There's a red light on the track,
There's a red light on the track, And it'll be there when he comes back.
And it'll be there when he comes back. There's a red light on the track for Bolsum
There's a red light on the track for Bolsum Brown.
Brown.

POOR PADDY WORKS ON THE RAILWAY

Gangs of pick and shovel men from Ireland made the dirt and gravel fly in the years named
in this song, as they were building the many little stub line railroads that were later connected into
trunk lines. Emerson wrote then, "The poor Irishman - a wheelbarrow is his country." It is a
considerable song and has been widely sung and known since its publication in sheet music in the
early 1850's. Since then, too, the Irish have had_a high percentage of railway executives; they
have a faculty for railroading.

Arr. L.S
2 | SS ey
RD Soe = SESS eT ea ae
Oh + , in eigh - teenhun-dredand for - ty HE My cor - du-roy britch - es

i a = -s ==
SSS SSS

She pw | -s
rw "4 w ce oe Ms
Ww

St

Oh poor Pad-dy works on therail - way!

SaaS == poll

5 AES tose re oe the f]
CF ww oe oe oe

POOR PADDY WORKS ON THE RAILWAY

1 Oh in eighteen hundred and forty-one
My corduroy britches I put on,
My corduroy britches I put on,
To work upon the railway, the railway,
I'm weary of the railway;
Oh poor Paddy works on the railway!

2 Oh in eighteen hundred and forty-two
I did not know what I should do,
I did not know what I should do,
To work upon the railway, the railway,
I'm weary of the railway;
Oh poor Paddy works on the railway!

83 Oh in eighteen hundred and forty-three
I sailed away across the sea,
I sailed away across the sea,
To work upon the railway, the railway,
I'm weary of the railway;
Oh poor Paddy works on the railway!

4 Oh in eighteen hundred and forty-four
I landed on Columbia's shore,
I landed on Columbia's shore,
To work upon the railway, the railway,
I'm weary of the railway;
Oh poor Paddy works on the railway!

5 Oh in eighteen hundred and forty-five
When Daniel O'Connell he was alive,
When Daniel O'Connell he was alive,
To work upon the railway, the railway,
I'm weary of the railway;

Oh poor Paddy works on the railway!

6 Oh in eighteen hundred and forty-six
I changed my trade to carrying bricks,
I changed my trade to carrying bricks,
From working on the railway, the railway,
I was weary of the railway;
Oh poor Paddy worked on the railway!

7 Oh in eighteen hundred and forty-seven
Poor Paddy was thinking of going to Heaven,
Poor Paddy was thinking of going to Heaven,
After working on the railway, the railway,
He was weary of the railway;
Oh poor Paddy worked on the railway!

THE RAILROAD CARS ARE COMING

Federal government experiments with camels in the 1850's were no go. The hope was that
caravans of dromedaries might carry freight traffic from New Orleans to the west coast... .
Horse, mule, burro, were good overland freighters. But the box car was better; it gave cruel desert
spaces a friendly and human look. . . . As the work gangs spiked rails to ties and the eastern and
western gangs came closer, this song arose, one verse with jubilation, one with laughter at the prairie
dog, the rattlesnake and owl having their dominion of the desert interrupted. . . . We have this
text and tune from Margery K. Forsythe of Chicago, who learned it from her pioneer mother.

oO
The great Pa-cif-ic rail-way, for Cal-i-for-ni-a hail! Bringonthelo-co-mo-tive, Lay

THE RAILROAD CARS ARE COMING

1 The great Pacific railway,

For California hail!

Bring on the locomotive,
Lay down the iron rail;

Across the rolling prairies
By steam we're bound 'to go,

The railroad cars are coming, humming
Through New Mexico,

The railroad cars are coming, humming

Through New Mexico.

DD Diane one

y,

Laem

aac :

RAG

ye: =
ae ee

SSS :

New Mex-i - co.

2 The little dogs in dog-town

Will wag each little tail;

They'll think that something's coming
A-riding on a rail.

The rattle-snake will show its fangs,
The owl tu-whit, tu-who,

The railroad cars are coming, humming
Through New Mexico,

The railroad cars are coming, humming

Through New Mexico.

JERRY, GO AN' ILE THAT CAR

In 1884 Charles Lummis heard Gunnysack Riley sing this at Albuquerque, New Mexico-
Later, as an editor, he wanted the verses and put the matter up to Santa Fe railroad officials, who
sent out a general order covering the whole system, calling for verses to Jerry Go An' Ile That Car.
A lost song was dug up. . . . Of the text here, Lummis says, "The words are pretty nearly con-
clusive, but any one who can round them out will do service to history." . . . The tune is given
as notated by Arthur Farwell from Charles Lummis as learned from Gunnysack Riley.

Arr. A. F.
Moderato
= ae aa Sree ee
= :
Come all ye rail-road sec- tion men, An' lis - ten to my _ song, It

Pe ae -

of Lar-ry O' Sul-li- van, Who now is dead and gone.
(e2 een
a
Z bE
twin-ty years a  sec-tion boss, He niv-er hired a tar- Oh, it's
a. 2 fF ~ e_
a+ Saree es a Ss JACEE eS Wa -s : ee
(a aie [eee
Ae ee GSS BS a a ae 7 ia Se eee -- -} 2

JERRY, GO AN' ILE THAT CAR

"jint" a - head and cin - ter back, An' Jer-ry, go an' ile that car-r-r!"

1 Come all ye railroad section men,

An' listen to my song;

It is of Larry O'Sullivan,
Who now is dead and gone.

For twinty years a section boss,
He niver hired a tar-

Oh, it's "j'int ahead and cinter back,
An' Jerry, go an' ile that car-r-r!"

2 For twinty years a section boss 5

He worked upon the track,

And be it to his cred-i-it,
He niver had a wrack,

For he kept every j'int right up to the p'int
Wid the tap of the tampin'-bar-r;

And while the byes was a-shimmin' up the ties,
It's "Jerry, wud yez ile that car-r-r!"'

3 God rest ye, Larry O'Sullivan, 6

To me ye were kind an' good;

Ye always made the section men
Go out and chop me wood;

An' fetch me wather from the well,
An' cut the kindlin' fine;

And anny man that wudn't lind a han'
*Twas Larry'd give him his Time.

4 And ivery Sunday marni-i-ing

Unto the gang he'd say:
"Me byes, prepare-yez be aware
The ould lady goes to church the day.
Now I want ivery man to pump the best that
For the distance it is far-r-r; [he can,
An' we have to get in ahead of Number 10-
So, Jerry, go an' ile that car-r-r!"

*Twas in November, in the winter time,
An' the ground all covered wid snow,
"Come, putt the hand-car-r on the track,
An' over the section go!"
Wid his big sojer coat buttoned up to his t'roat.
All weathers he wud dare-
An' it's "Paddy Mack, will yez walk the track,
An' Jerry, go an' ile that car-r-r!"

"Give my rispicts to the Roadmas-ther,"
Poor Larry he did cry,

"And lave me up, that I may see
The ould hand-car-r before I die.

Then lay the spike-maul upon his chist,
The gauge an' the ould claw-bar-r,

And while the byes do be fillin' up the g'ave,
Oh, Jerry, go and ile that car-r-r!"

O Lord, let it rain,
Wet my little dress!

So that corn will be cheaper
And I can fill my belly!

This translation from hieroglyphics on an ancient Egyptian temple is among the oldest known
songs of working people. It is not a far cry from such lines to the replies of a witness before the
industrial relations commission, who told the commission's examiner, Frank P. Walsh, that he and
other railroad men had at a certain time been "sitting and talking." "What were you talking
about?" "Oh, just railroad talk." 'Anything particular in railroad talk." "No, just railroad
talk." "Well, could you tell us just what you mean by railroad talk?" "Oh-whiskey-and
women-and higher wages and shorter hours.". . . . The lyric here is a white and negro blend in
its making; it was heard at the University of Kentucky; the young man who sang it said the notes
are sometimes "blued"' and it is then called The Louisville & Nashville Blues.

Arr. H. F.
fS_-S___..-..

= 1
-e--

They took John Hen-ry to the steep hill -side; He looked to the heav-en a -

bove. He says: "Takemy ham-mer and wrap it in gold And

|
,
|

1 They took John Henry to the steep hillside; 2 "If I die a railroad man,
He looked to the heaven above. Go bury me under the tie,
He says: "Take my hammer and wrap it in gold So I can hear old No. 4
And give it to the girl I love, As she goes rolling by,
And give it to the girl I love. As she goes rolling by.

3 "Tf I die a railroad man,
Go bury me under the sand,
With a pick and a shovel at my head and feet,
And a nine-pound hammer in my hand,
And a nine-pound hammer in my hand."

CAP'N, I BELIEVE

When Tubman K. Hedrick, poet and philosopher, was a water boy on a building construction
job in a Texas town, he heard negroes, going up a ladder with hods of mortar, chanting ''Cap'n,
I believe" to the bricklayers above who replied as our text indicates. It reminds us of one Pat
who told one Mike, ''All I do is carry the bricks up the ladder-the man on top does all the work."

Cap'n, I be - lieve, Cap'n, I be - lieve, Cap'n, I be - lieve,

be-lieve, be-lieve I'll die. 'Oh, no, you ain't gon-na die. Come on with that
mo-tah!"? Cap'n, etc.

JAY GOULD'S DAUGHTER and ON THE CHARLIE SO LONG

The Goulds and the Vanderbilts were big names in railroading in the 1880's. Daughters in
both families found their way into railroad and hobo songs. . . . The "blind" baggage car, with
a platform but no front door, hooked on just back of the engine tender, was a place bums rode;
engine crews sometimes gave them hot water. . . .Smoke, dust, gravel, get into the nose and eyes,
and grind into the skin of those riding the rods under a box car or in the trucks of a passenger coach;
loosening a hold or going to sleep means death. . . . The same tune goes for Jay Gould's daughter
and that train wreck ballad On The Charlie So Long (B). Both texts are from the collection of
John Lomax while the tune is from the singing of Mrs. Lomax.

Rather fast Arr. H. F:

On a Mon-day morn-in' it be-gan to rain; A-roun' the bend come a

JAY GOULD'S DAUGHTER

dead and gone, He's a_ good old ho - bo, but he's dead and _ gone.

1 On a Monday mornin' it began to rain; 3 Jay Gould's daughter said before she died:
Aroun' the bend come a passenger train. "There's one more road I'd like to ride."
On the bumpers was a hobo John; "Tell me, daughter, what can it be?"
He's a good old hobo, but he's dead and gone. "Tt's in southern California on the Santa Fe,
Dead and gone, dead and gone, On the Santa Fe, on the Santa Fe,
He's a good old hobo, but he's dead and gone. It's in southern California on the Santa Fe."
2 Charley Snyder was a good engineer, 4 Jay Gould's daughter said before she died,
| He told his fireman not to fear, "Father, fix the blind so the bums can't ride;
| All he needed was water and coal; If ride they must, let them ride the rod,
| Put your head out the window, see the drivers roll, Let 'em put their trust in the hands of God,
See the drivers roll, see the drivers roll, In the hands of God, in the hands of God,

Put your head out the window, see the drivers roll. Let 'em put their trust in the hands of God."

ON THE CHARLIE SO LONG

1 On a Monday morning it began to rain, 4 As the two locomotives was about to bump,
Around the bend come a passenger train; The fireman prepared to make his jump;
On the bumpers was an old Jimmie Jones, The engineer blowed the whistle, and the fire-
He's a good old porter but he's dead and gone; man bawled,

Dead and gone, dead and gone, "Please, Mr. Conductor, won't you save us all?
'Case he been on the Charlie so long. Won't yousaveusall? Won't yousave usall?
*Case you been on the Charlie so long."
2 Joseph Mickle was a good engineer,

O you ought to been there for to see the sight,

cr

Told the fireman never to fear;

All he wanted was to get her good and hot, Screaming and yelling, both colored and white;
"We'll make Paris 'bout four o'clock, Some were crippled and some were lame,

*Bout four o'clock, bout four o'clock, And the six-wheel driver had to bearthe blame,

'Case we been on the Charlie so long." Had to bear the blame, had to bear the

Case he been on the Charlie so long. [blame,
3 When we got within a mile of the place,

Number One stared us right in the face; 6 O ain't it a pity, ain't it a shame?

The conductor pulled his watch, and mumbled The six-wheel driver had to bear the blame.
and said, Some were crippled, and some were lame,
"We may make it but we'll all be dead, And the six-wheel driver had to bear the blame,

We'll all be dead, we'll all be dead, Had to bear the blame, had to bear the
*Case we been on the Charlie so long." Case he been on the Charlie so long. [blame,
