SONGS

HARMONIZATION BY

Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .

Rupert Hughes

Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .

Rupert Hughes

PAGE

Child Drawings from Mexican Folkways

LA CUCARACHA (MEXICAN COCKROACH SONG)

Dark women are good as gold;
Brunettes like silver win;

The blondes are only copper,
And the light ones only tin.

God made the swarthy women;

A silversmith the white ones;

The dark brunettes, a tailor;

A cobbler the black-as-night ones.

In his book, "'The Land of Poco Tempo,"' Charles Lummis gives these verses as instances of
epigrammatic folk utterances, proverbial rhymes, dichos. Nearly every Mexican sometimes has
made a dicho, and the fittest of them survive, Lummis tells us. They include offhand oddities such
as this:

Lovable eyes
Of coffee hue,
Give me a kiss

Of faith all true.

And they may proclaim lines of highly serious mood:

There is no better friend than God,
This is clear and past denying;

For the dearest may betray,

The most truthful may be lying.

We are not surprised that in the song of La Cucaracha (The Cockroach), there is variety of
theme. Sunny Spain heard the likes of some of the verses before they married a new tune in Mexico.
And for understanding the banter and satire of other stanzas one would require knowledge of the
careers of Pancho Villa and Zapata besides an acquaintance with Mexican political and revolution-
ary history. In 1916 in Chicago I heard the tune and two or three stray verses of La Cucaracha
from Wallace Smith and Don Magregor, both of whom as newspaper correspondents with a streak
of outlaw in them, had eaten frijoles with Villa and slept under Pancho's poncho, so to speak. Also
T. K. Hedrick from down Texas way sang the Cockroach song in Mexican. However, we must not
assume that a cockroach is what the Mexican means in singing these verses. It may be a pet name,
"The Little Dancer,"' we are told by Alice Corbin. For F. §. Curtis, Jr., of the Texas Folk Lore
Society observes, "'A whole dissertation might be written upon the fact that a cucaracha may be
either a cockroach or a little, dried-up old maid, and that the term was also used as a nickname for
the late Venustiano Carranza; and considerable space might be devoted to explaining that mari-
huana is a weed, which, when smoked, is capable of producing serious narcotic effects and even
causing a homicidal mania." Then he queries significantly, "But of what benefit is such stuff to
the songs of New Mexico?" The text here is from Curtis. He says of the tune, "It strongly sug-
gests a sixteenth century origin, especially with the guitar accompaniment usually used."

LA CUCARACHA

Arr. A. G. W.
Allegretto
Wise Se rr Sa
CS aa = = ee = aneers,
s- st '
When a fel - low loves a maid-en And that maid-en does-n't love him,
= => >
--- Z Se
« « * « « '
mp ca exe ic rs
Se | aise a
ane = AS
ea oe eee ee

CC
a a
It's the same as when a_ bald man Finds a comb up -on the high - way.
oN
4 = - a er --s|
-s =: x Se = EE) as laer Resear eaegee
< (=- «(4
: : =e ave
ee ee ee
4 ee ee = w
Cuorus
+ = --- eS = nes aS :
- :
SSS Se
The cu -ca-rach - a, the cu - ca-rach -a Does-n't want to trav - el
SS =e z =
cH
ioe
Sle eee eee
----
Se Sr ee ee Some mares aan -!
7 So a
sewee = i pe
on  Be-cause she has - n't Oh, no, she has - n't Ma - ri- hua-na for to smoke.

- Se
a Saar = es nara tae oe

1 Cuando uno quiere a una
Y esta una no lo quiere,
Es lo mismo que si un calvo

Chorus:
La cucaracha, la cucaracha,
Ya no quieres caminar,
Porque no tienes,
Porque le falta,
Marihuana que fumar.

2 Las muchachas son de oro;
Las casadas son de plata;
Las viudas son de cobre,
Y las viejas oja de lata.

3 Mi vecina de enfrente
Se Ilamaba Dojia Clara,
Y si no habfa muerto
Es probable se llamara.

4 Las muchachas de Las Vegas
Son muy altas y delgaditas,
Pero son mas pediguefias
Que las animas benditas.

5 Las muchachas de la villa
No saben ni dar un beso,
Cuando las de Albuquerque
Hasta estiran el pescuezo.

6 Las muchachas Mexicanas
Son lindas como una flor,
Y hablan tan dulcemente
Que encantan de amor.

7 Una cosa me da risa -
Pancho Villa sin camisa.
Ya se van los Carranzistas
Porque vienen los Villistas.

8 Necesita automdévil
Par' hacer la caminata
Al Jugar a donde mandé
La convencién Zapata.

En la calle encuentr' un peine.

LA CUCARACHA

When a fellow loves a maiden
And that maiden doesn't love him,
It's the same as when a bald man
Finds a comb upon the highway.

Chorus:
The cucaracha, the cucaracha,
Doesn't want to travel on
Because she hasn't,
Oh no, she hasn't,
Marihuana for to smoke.

All the maidens are of pure gold;
All the married girls are silver;
All the widows are of copper,
And old women merely tin.

My neighbor across the highway
Used to be called Dofia Clara,
And if she has not expired

Likely that's her name tomorrow.

All the girls up at Las Vegas

Are most awful tall and skinny,

But they're worse for plaintive pleading
Than the souls in Purgatory.

All the girls here in the city

Don't know how to give you kisses,
While the ones from Albuquerque
Stretch their necks to avoid misses.

All the girls from Mexico

Are as pretty as a flower

And they talk so very sweetly,
Fill your heart quite up with love.

One thing makes me laugh most hearty -
Pancho Villa with no shirt on

Now the Carranzistas beat it

Because Villa's men are coming.

Fellow needs an automobile

If he undertakes the journey
To the place to which Zapata
Ordered the famous convention.

MANANITAS (de Jalisco)
(EARLY MORNINGS) (from Jaliseo)

Verses and air were published in Mexican Folkways. Luis Morones, violinist and Chicagoan,
made a literal translation which was freely rendered by Louis Untermeyer, poet and New Yorker.

| Arr. A. G. W.
Pe : ee fe
-- ee eee a -
(1) El dfa en que tuna -cis - te na - cle -

(1) The day thatmydear came to _ us, The
12' ay, Eee a =
Gi ee oe - ==
ee -
e - e
ws ce a
7p) dolce ort - , arr
Int -) = Sse ou
7 SL eee et ere ------ --
{) 3 o-
é ee : = 2 :
KD ; ; ea : ee =
ron to - das las flo res, el dfa en que tu. na- cis - te can - ta -
tee ee P, NOY ER ! a be
-_0--_s | e- --
Geeat Sefer a = ==- ---
flow'rs were a-born-ing, too; The day that mydear came to _ us, The
G SS
_--SS ae See
° ; - |
e e ae, e

\\

=

Tui - se - fio- res. Yas vie- neama-ne-cien-do ya la

ron los

ae eee eon, sees Ans aS ae

Sun - rise is com-ing,is com - ing, The

>) 4

MANANITAS

7™
Sata eee ae
= Se ee

luz del dfa nos vid, ya dis-pier-taa-mi-ga mia mi-ra que yaa-ma- ne- cid.
3 7N -
SxF wT ESE oe eS Be ay ae
SS SS | --- =e
[Ss aes ane a a
sun hasseenus,mydear, A - _ rise,my lit-tlefriend, Look, day light is here.

= SS SSSI
ee
Sas eae

1 El dia en que tu naciste y darte los buenos dfas
nacieron todas las flores, acostadita en tu cama.
el dia en que tu naciste
cantaron los ruisefiores.

3 Por la luna doy un peso,
por el sol doy un tostén,
Refrain: por mi amiga Marianita,
Ya viene a maneciendo, la vida y el corazén.
ya la luz del dia nos vid,
ya dispierta amiga mia
mira que ya amaneci6.

4 De las estrellas del cielo
quisiera bajarte dos,
una para saludarte

2 Quisiera ser solecito y otra pa decirte adidés.
para entrar por tu ventana,

EARLY MORNINGS

(English version by Louis Untermeyer)

1 The day that my dear came to us, And flicker a bright "Good Morning"
The flow'rs were a-borning too; Before you were out of bed.
The day that my dear came to us,

The nightingales trilled their songs. SPIO ENT REITER GI)

For the sun a guinea of gold,
Refrain: For my sweet friend Marianita
Sunrise is coming, is coming, I'd give my heart and soul.
The sun has seen us, my dear,
si ie ee se I'd like to bring down two;
' ' With the one I'd say, "How are you?"
2 If I were a yellow sunray With the other, "Good bye to you."
I'd sparkle about your head .

4 From all the stars in heaven

LO QUE DIGO

Mexican Folkways, the magazine so ably and humanly edited by Frances Toor in Mexico
City, published the lyric lines and lovely air of this song. Luis Morones, violinist and Chicagoan,
presented the variant given here, as he heard it and sang it when a youth in Jalisco, Mexico. 'There,
he informs us, it was known as the Venadito Song, venadito meaning little deer or offspring of parent
deer. By many it is considered a characteristic specimen and a superb instance of the Latin-Ameri-
can love song.

Arr. A. G. W.

di- go dehoy en di- a, Lo que di-go lo sos-ten - go,

See Se Ser eer eee ee
é ' ig

+

Yo no ven-goa ver si pue-do, Yo no ven-goa ver si peu-do, Yo no

= cas ae we ee aera ee = = 5 wees --
€ € ~ < <-e <-@ iO oe
a

(os + 4 'F

m-goa ver si pue- do, Si- no' por-que pue - do, ven - go.

From Jalisco

1 Lo que digo de hoy en dia, 1 What I will say today
Lo que digo lo sostengo, I shall always maintain,
Yo no vengo a ver si puedo, I do not come to see,
Yo no vengo a ver si puedo, I do not come to see,
Yo no vengo a ver si puedo, I do not come to see,
Sino porque puedo, vengo. If I can, only because I can, I come.

LO QUE DIGO

2 Los higos y las naranjas 2 Figs and oranges
En el drbol se maduran, In the tree mature,
Los ojitos que se queren, Little eyes that love each other,
Los ojitos que se queren, Little eyes that love each other,
Los ojitos que se queren, Little eyes that love each other,
Dende lejos se saludan. From afar they say "Hello!"

3 Y a mi me saludaron 3 And they said hello to me,
Aquellos que estoy mirando, Those little eyes, I see,
Sin poderles contestar, I can not answer though,
Sin poderles contestar, I can not answer though,
Sin poderles contestar, I can not answer though,
Su mamé4 me estd4 mirando. For mother is watching.

4 A las once de la noche 4 At eleven o'clock tonight
Alld te espero en el Kiosco, I shall be waiting in the Kiosco
Pa que sepas que te quero, You will know I love you,
Pa que sepas que te quero, You will know I love you,
Pa que sepas que te quero, You will know I love you,
Y el miedo no lo conozco. And fear I do not know.

EL ABANDONADO
MEXICAN FOLK SONG

"The love song is by far the most common of all Mexican folk-songs. During the trail driving
days many of the cowboys who drove herds from Southern Texas to Kansas and beyond were Mexi-
cans. I have often asked old trail drivers if the vaqueros had any such songs as the Texas cowboys
had. Invariably the answer has been that the vaqueros sang little else but love songs." Thus
wrote Frank J. Dobie, Secretary of the Texas Folk Lore Society, in No. 3 of the publications of that
organization. Of El Abandonado he wrote that it is one of the most popular of all Mexican songs,
"'is sung wherever Mexicans live," and is representative "of that large body of Mexican love songs
to be heard day and night whether in camp or at fiesta." Each verse here is given in Mexican,
followed by free translation into English, as presented by Dobie.

Lento maestoso Arr. R. H.
Eee

EL ABANDONADO

us mA
ee SEL,
gc Lvecr cme sarees + ae (a EPS aS
aan |
Me a - ban - do -  nas-tes, mu - jer, por ~ -
dete ict 4) lato) sig ree
= pee =a" ba a oe5e5- ae
AN rs oe = - 25 = = oo @ tee te Z|

= SS
vie ae
p

a - pa - sion - a- do.

Zs:

Pues quéhe de

-_-ooorr----

=

"=

iti

f

EL ABANDONADO >

eo

- cer, si ps yonnsex Sel soy el a - ae - sleskte -na-do?.

pete ies See

oe -
p ws x am ee
2 eee eT S hai aed er ee eT
ae =
Pues quéhe de _ ha - cer, se .-. 7d... por el' a- - mor de Dios.

--_-_
SS ase nee = 2 LSS
- : = aa } =
2S es Se ee = a ao =

1 Me abandonastes, mujer, porque soy muy pobre
Y la desgracia es ser hombre apasionado.
Pues qué he de hacer, si yo soy el abandonado?
Pues qué he de hacer, serd por el amor de Dios.

You abandon me, woman, because I am very poor; the misfortune is to be a man of passionate
devotion. Then, what am I to do if I am the abandoned one? Well, whatever I am to do will be
_ done by the will of God.

2 Tres vicios tengo, los tres tengo adoptados:
El ser borracho, jugador, y enamorado.
Pues qué he de hacer si soy el abandonado?
Pues qué he de hacer, serd por el amor de Dios.

Three vices I have cultivated: drunkenness, gambling, and love. Then what am I to do if I
_ am the abandoned one? Well, whatever I am to do will be done by the will of God.

3 Pero ando ingrato si con mi amor no quedo;
Tal vez otro hombre con su amor se habra jugado.
Pues qué he de hacer, si soy el abandonado?
Pues qué he de hacer, seré por el amor de Dios.

But I go unhappy if with my love I cannot remain. Perhaps another man has toyed with her
jove. Then what am I to do if Iam the abandoned one? Well, whatever I am to do will be done

by the will of God. a

CIELITO LINDO

In the southwestern states on the Mexican border are a million or more citizens of the United
States, having Latin, North American Indian, or Nordic mother tongues, who sing Cielito Lindo
only in Spanish. The text and tune here are from Luis Morones of Chicago, in the version most
familiar to him since birth and education in Mexico, and residence in border states.

Arr. A. G. W.
Con moto, ma tranquillo

(oS a Ses SS Se a ee

[a
De la Si -e - rra Mo-re-na, Cie - li - to Lin-do, Vie - nen ba -

jan =sdo".. > un par de o-ji-tos ne-gros Cie -  li- to
> a od =; ks e °
_--= Se = = e -- SOs ee ---
= =e se i a = =
SSS se ae ae aime ---
| SS SSS SS eS SSS
CHORUS
A ee ee ee ee =
ol
Lin -do.@ de ..  Con-tra -ban-do. ... iAy, AY wearniAy;

:

CIELITO LINDO

SS

ze pee oe [ee

Ay!

ho

Se ---

Ilo -res, . . por-que can - tan-

hy

ee
ie =

- ta i
ans Nit Gt atte
( Os Sas of bes = SSS Sa

do sea-le-gran Cie - li-to Lin-do

los co -ra -ZO - nes. .=>
2s

1 De la sierra morena,
cielito lindo,
vienen bajando
un par de ojitos negros
cielito lindo
de contrabando.

Chorus:
jAy, ay, ay, ay!
canta y no llores,
porque cantando se alegran
cielito lindo
los corazones.

2 Una fiecha en el aire
cielito lindo
lanzé Cupido
y como fué jugando,
cielito lindo,
yo fuf el herido.

3 P&4jaro que abandona
cielito lindo
su primer nido,

= Soa eae pian i

~o ms

vuelve y lo halla ocupado
cielito lindo
y muy merecido.

4 Ese lunar que tienes
cielito lindo
junto a la boca,
no se lo des a nadie
cielito lindo,
que a mi me toca.

6 Todas las iluciones
cielito lindo
que el amor fragua,
son como las espumas
cielito lindo
que forma el agua.

jAy, ay, ay, ay!
suben y crecen

y con el mismo viento
cielito lindo,
desaparecen.

ADELITA

The simple song of Adelita is widely known in the Southwest, survives time and usage, and
takes added vitality from the infusion of new verses. I have heard it from the box-car bunk-houses
of Mexican railroad workers in Elmhurst, Illinois, and from a singing guitar player who passed the
hat in the Mexican quarter in Los Angeles, California. I heard the Mayor of Santa Fe, New Mexico,
one afternoon command ten of his constituents and subjects to sing it in unison and in Spanish -
which they did. . . . The text and air here are from F. S. Curtis, Jr., who notes that with the possible
exception of stanzas 1 and 5, it is distinctly Mexican in subject matter. 'The number of stanzas
available is very nearly unlimited. The version given here was selected because there is a reasonable
amount of connection between the stanzas."

Arr. A. G. W.

Con moto, ma con espressione
2s S=
A -de - li - ta's the name of the la - dy .. Who was mis-tress_ of

mp fe : ee Ee Ts

ee [gai 9 can we Lo TAS 2 a
sa =o Ss

Sy SS eR Re SUS She er Bue

ee
oS, a : eg =a = ==
C aa eae =e : = o-~- ------ = =a

Y

o-
= = er
pas = =! ten
qs N Ee NS Ne a
SSS ee
my pleas-ures here. . . . . Nev -er think I can come to for -

Nor to change her for

Adelita se llama la ingrata,

La qu' era duefia de todo mi placer.
Nunca piensas que llegue a olvidarla
Ni cambiarla por otra mujer.

Si Adelita quisiera ser mi esposa,
Si Adelita fuera mi mujer,

Le compraria un vestido de seda
Y la llevara a pasear el cuartel.

Ya me llama el clarin de campafia
Como soldado valiente a pelear.
Correrra por los calles la sangre
Pero olvidarte jamds me vera.

Si acaso yo muero en campafia

Y mi cadaver en la tierra va a quedar,
Adelita, por Dos te la ruego

Que por mi muerte tu vayas a llorar.

Adelita es una fronteriza

Con ojos verdes, color de la mar,
Que trae locos a todos los hombres
Y a todos les hace llorar.

Si Adelita se fuere con otro

La seguirfa la huella sin cesar,

En aeroplanos y buques de guerra
Y por tierra hast' en tren militar.

ADELITA

Adelita's the name of the lady

Who was the mistress of all my pleasures here.

Never think I can come to forget her,
Nor to change her for any other dear.

If Adelita would take me for a husband,
If Adelita would only be my wife,

I would buy her a costume of satin

And I'd give her a taste of barracks life.

Now the trumpet to battle does call me
To fight as every valiant soldier should.

In the streets then the blood will be running,

But twill never see me forget thee.

If perhaps I should die in the battle,

And my poor corpse be left upon the field,
Adelita, for God's sake I pray thee

For my death thou wilt shed but one tear.

Adelita's a desperate coquette

With deep green eyes, the color of the sea,
Who drives all the men to distraction
And makes them all weep bitterly.

Should Adelita run off with another,

I'd trail her always, forever, near and far,
Both in airplanes and ships of the navy,
And on land in a military train.

"In the year 1900, Encarnacion Garcia waylaid and killed another Mexican in Cameron County.
Montalgo, a Mexican deputy sheriff, rode up on Encarnacion as the latter was burying his victim.
Encarnacion resisted arrest, or at least Montalgo always so claimed, and Montalgo killed him. Ten
years later to a day, Encarnacion's gente got their revenge by killing Montalgo."' Thus Frank J.
Dobie, of the Texas Folk Lore Society, gives in brief the facts leading to this ballad in its opening
verses. As to the closing stanzas he notes, "Sandoval had a little ranch and herded goats. He sang
this song to my brother and presumably had composed it, certainly the last three stanzas. San-
doval came up to the Granjeno gate while the crowd were viewing the restos of Montalgo. Hino-
josa, a deputy sheriff from Brownsville, came up, did nothing about the murder but arrested poor
old Sandoval for killing the venaditas." . . . "These people of Manoa" refers to a family of Mexicans
that owned a little ranch near by; they were in sympathy with the sisters of the murdered Mon-
talgo; authorities at Brownsville deputized the head of the Manoa family to act as sheriff. . . .
Edal in the first stanza ""seems to be a Mexicanism not recorded in the dictionaries,' Dobie notes.
Almazan is a ranch west of Lyford. El puerto (masculine) is irregularly used for la puerta (feminine)
in the fourth and sixth stanzas; there seems to be authority for such interchange of usage in Spanish
manuscripts dating as far back as 1760. . . . "'Versos,'' Dobie also notes, "'as understood and used
by Texas Mexicans, are songs or verses, of folk composition in contradistinction to canciones, songs
derived from more or less literary purveyors, though cancion (song or ballad) is also frequently
applied to verses of local composition. For Versos de Montalgo I am indebted to my brother, Elrich
H. Dobie, who learned them while he was caporal (boss of a cow outfit) on the King Ranch in South
Texas, 1916-1917. He says the vaqueros frequently made up songs on local happenings. A white
maverick bull killed two or three horses and had to be shot. A Mexican made up a song on the
subject and for a while it was widely sung by the King Ranch Mexicans. A raid, a killing, a ladino
(outlaw) horse or steer, a stampede, a daring rider - these are characteristic themes for vaquero
improvisation." . . . The following is one of several stories of Lost Ballads that Frank Dobie tells:
"In the summer of 1921, I was with Captain Will Wright's rangers, when they raided a band of
tequila smugglers on the Nueces River in La Salle County. It was an interesting raid; one smuggler
had to be killed and over a thousand quarts of tequila were captured. I am told that a very long
song was composed on the subject, in which certain gringos, including myself, are not very well
spoken of. Much to my disappointment, I have been unable to hear the song or secure a copy
of it."

Allegro

oe

_S = Se

aes
En el mil nueve cien - tos y di-ez- Y los cuen - to sin e - dal-
+4 = ao =] a ae
== 2 ee ae
pes - - ee a a
mf P | i lg ie an et eee
aes eal ee rs 2 =e
le 'Seoa ae == aa Bugle 2250 Sarees
-- eee ees oe pee eer ce ene Soe retasea enema 4
(SS SS See ele ee ee a ee ee ee

re)

| A Mon-tal - go le ma-ta-ron Cer - ca del ca-mi-no re-al.
x J | oe s 4-2 4 1a - Ne ot 2
(PRES ee ips $F Sn
SS Se = eee = iE a a, -s-
> eee See -.
mf
=a == a)
= 2s | = ere =
= = = -e | = +- ears -s me a Ea
ae ae ee = , 2S

1 En el mil nueve cientos y diez -

AS)

a

Y los cuento sin edal -
A Montalgo le mataron
Cerca del camino real.

A Montalgo le mataron,

Le mataron sin razén,

A los diez afios cumplidos
Que le maté a Encarnacién.

Lunes en la mafiana
Salié del Almazan.
Montalgo no sabia
Que le tenian su plan.

A las tres salié de Lyford
En su caballo bayito,

En el Puerto del Granjeno
Ahi le formaron sitio.

In the year 1910 - and I give the date with-
out uncertainty -they killed Montalgo near
the public road.

They killed Montalgo, killed him without
reason, after ten years had passed from the
time he killed Encarnacién.

Monday in the morning Montalgo left the
Almazan. He did not know that there was a
plot against him.

At three o'clock in the afternoon he left
Lyford on his dun horse. At the gate called
Granjeno his enemies had laid an ambush,

at

Cuando Montalgo cay6,
El] malhecho le decia:

"No te asustas, Montalgo;
Pagaste lo que debias."

Y perdido estuvo un mes,

Eso dicen por cierto,

Que en el Puerto del Granjeno
Ahi le hallaron muerto.

Al mes hallaron los restos
Envueltos en un costal;
Arriba tenian hierbas,

Y mas arriba nopal.

Cuando se junté la gente,
Estuvieron medio dia;

La mayor parte decia

"i Vaélgame Dios! {como seria?'

Las Hermanas de Montalgo
Lloraron sin compasién
"{Oh, Montaigo, te mataron
A traicién!"

Esta gente del Manoa
Ayudaron de corazén;
Y a las seis u ocho dias
Le mandaron comisién.

Al pobre Sandoval

Le pegaron sin tuerca;

Le subieron a express

Con dos venaditas muertas.

En el camino arreglaron
Con el sefior Hinojosa
Con veinticinco moneas
Que le dieron.

El] que compuso esos versos
No sabia lo que decfa;
Anda va cuidando cabras
Que no se corta la gufa.

When Montalgo fell, murder said to him:
"You need not be scared, Montalgo; pay what
you owe."

He (that is, Montalgo's body) was lost for a
month. This is said for a certainty; that at
the Granjeno gate they found him dead.

At the end of a month they found the remains
wrapped up in a sack; on top of them were
weeds and on top of the weeds prickly pear was
piled.

When the people got together, they remained
assembled for half a day. ''Good God!" most
of them cried, "'how did this come about?"

Montalgo's sisters wept most piteously. "Oh,
Montalgo!" they cried, '"'they have murdered
you through treason."

These people of Manoa out of a good heart
helped the sisters. In six or eight days they
(the proper authorities) sent him (the head of
the Manoa family) a commission.

Poor Sandoval they nabbed without hand-
cuffs, and hoisted him up on his wagon along
with two little deer that he had killed.

On the road they fixed it up with Sefior Hino-
josa by paying him $25.

The fellow who made these verses did not
know what he was talking about. Let him care
for his goats and see that some bell-wether does
not cut off with a bunch of them.

SOUTHERN MOUNTAINS

HARMONIZATION BY
WAY UP ON CLINCH MOUNTAIN . : . Alfred G. Wathall .
LIZA IN THE SUMMER TIME (SHE DIED ON THE aha Alfred G. Wathall..
COON CAN (POOR BOY) .
GYPSY DAVY + oly | bodleugq: yorld yteohas.vados
THE ROVING GAMBLER .. wily Upolu Alfred G. Wathall':
YONDER COMES MY PRETTY LITTLE GIRL .
THE GAMBOLING MAN tx ued. enpiissiGril..
O BURY ME BENEATH THE WILLOW . . .. ._-..__Lullian Rosedale Goodman

MEGISLSGNG G (OUry aries, wi. tua Silbw. trepsoke oidlfrediG. Wathall<
THE ORPHAN GIRL OR NO BREAD FOR THE POOR ' , f :
I GOT A GAL AT THE HEAD OF THE HOLLER . : . Hazel Felman
TONHSOMERROAD 2 ti) Wel & Dire wel therm 24! aetnnuth: Crawford

FOND AFFECTION : : ¢

GO BRING ME BACK MY BLUE-EYED BOY .

LONDON CITY : : f f ; X ;
WH MIDNIGHT TRAIN al Gf oum.e oo ehiatancn. oo Alfred.G.Wathall:..
I DON'T LIKE NO RAILROAD MAN ; : i : . Hazel Felman

PAGE

.308

In 1917 I met Cecil J. Sharp, Director of the Stratford-upon-Avon School of Folk Lore and
Folk Dancing. He was at Knoxville, Tennessee, just back from the mountains, joyful over a book
full of new ballads, copied down as people had sung them to him. 'These missionaries with their
schools!"' he exclaimed indignantly. '"'I'd like to build a wall around these mountains and let the
mountain people alone. The only distinctive culture in America is here. These people live. They
sustain themselves on the meanest food. They are not interested in eating, but they have time
to sing ballads." .

When these people emigrated to this continent, many of them landed at Philadelphia to join
Penn's more tolerant colony. Gradually they pushed their way up the Cumberland Valley into
Maryland, then up the valley of the Shenandoah and the narrow valleys of southwestern Virginia.
Then they pressed beyond the Cumberland Gap and gradually took possession of the great region
of the Southern Appalachians. As Bishop Burleson well puts it:

"Most of them broke through the barrier of the mountains and founded new commonwealths
in Kentucky and Tennessee. But some stopped in the mountains. A horse died, a cart broke
down, a young couple could not leave the little grave of their only child; fatigue, illness, the lure
of the mountains-now it was one thing and now another; but when the host had passed, there
were scattered dwellings being reared among the great hills, and a few hundreds-progenitors of
many thousands-had begun a course of life which was to continue unchanged for generations.
They came in poor, . . . and they are today the poorest people in America. As in all races, there
are different grades among thea, ranging from the fairly well-to-do farmers along the river valleys
to the squatters in the cabins on the high mountains, where the cultivated land is often so steep
that the harvested crops can only be brought down in sleds." .

Illiteracy is high in the Southern Highlands, but illiteracy does not prove anything about one's
brain capacity. We were all recently illiterate, and furthermore, gentlemen are born, not made
with print. Friends of the mountaineer state it thus:

"Tt is the fatal fallacy of a public-schooled world that literacy is counted the earmark of civi-
lization. The keenest intelligence, the sweetest behavior, the most high-born distinction of manner
are gifts of the gods to those who can neither read nor write. A dear friend once said: 'We-uns
that cain't read or write have a heap of time to think, and that's the reason we know more than
you-all.'"'

"Tf the time ever comes when the requirements for citizenship are based on intelligence rather
than on information, perhaps these people will make a better showing than the multitude in cities
who have just enough education to read the sporting pages of the newspapers."

J. Russevt Smits in North America.

A
WAY UP ON CLINCH MOUNTAIN

This song has a thousand verses, perhaps going back to the Scotch of the 17th century, we are
told. It is the daddy, probably, of many of the Lulu songs. There is poetry, now wayward, now
wild, in these stanzas, of moods like Robert Burns and like Provencal balladists of France. Usually
singers keep to one tune throughout but I have heard singers make their independent variations with
some stanzas. At its best it delivers a character and parts of a life story.

1 Way up on Clinch Mountain,
I wander alone;
I'm as drunk as the devil,
Oh, let me alone!

2 I'll eat when I'm hungry,
En drink when I'm dry;
If whisky don't kill me,
T'll live till I die.

3 Rye whisky, rye whisky,
I know you of old,
You rob my poor pockets
Of silver and gold.
4 Rye whisky, rye whisky,
You're no friend to me.
You killed my old daddy,
God damn you, try me.

5 Jack o' diamonds, jack o' diamonds,
I know you of old,
You rob my poor pockets,
Of silver and gold.

1€.

ow
1 Way up on Clinch Mountain where the wild 2 You may boast of yore knowledge, en brag 0'

geese fly high, __ yore sense,
I'll think of little Allie en lay down en die. 'T will all be forgotten a hundred years hence.

8 Oh Lulu, oh Lulu, oh Lulu, my dear,
I'd give the whole world if my Lulu was hyer.
R07

LIZA IN THE SUMMER TIME (She Died on the Train)

The arrangement of air and words here is based on a song heard by Charles Rockwood of
Geneva, Illinois, during a residence in North Carolina mountains. Lines from old British ballads
mingle with mountaineer lingo as in the word "mountings;" negro influence is not absent. This
may be an instance of the song that starts among people who have a tune, who want to sing, who
join together on an improvisation, reaching out for any kind of verses, inventing, repeating, marrying
Scotch lyrics with black-face minstrel ditties; in the end comes a song that pleases them for their
purposes. Its mood varies here from the lugubrious to the light-hearted. The way to sing it is
"as you like it."

Arr. A. G. W.

can't be Li - za all the time, I won't be Li -- za 'tall.

awe. :
ae. 4 a ; Ss - a aaa
A. 22 53 See Se --4 : $-s- = Z
NS, = D gi 5 - 5

LIZA IN THE SUMMER TIME

rit. =

-=s : p ee ae =A repeat ig ety
Ee Ss = : o-

she died on the train, She died on the train, she died on _ the train.

1 Liza in the summer time, Liza in the fall,
If I can't be Liza all the time, I won't be Liza 't all. -

Chorus: Po' lil' Liza, po' gal, po' lil' Liza Jane,
Po' li'l' Liza, po' li'l' gal, she died on the train,
She died on the train, she died on the train.

2 When I go up in the mountings and give my horn a blow,
I think I hear my true love say, "' Yonder comes my beau."

Chorus: Po' li'l' Liza, etc.

3 I wish I had my needle and thread fine as I can sew,
I'd sew my true love to my side and down the road we'd go.

Chorus: Po' li'? Liza, ete.

4 Her face was of a ruddy hue, her hair a chestnut brown.
Her eyes were like a thunder cloud before the rain comes down.

Chorus: Po' li'l' Liza, etc.
