It is believed this song originated in Chicago, the premier meat packing city of the round earth,
the continents thereof, and the archipelagoes of the seven seas. However, it is also sung in Omaha,
Cincinnatti, New York and San Francisco, as of local origin. In time seven cities may claim its
author, though it is Aristophanic rather than Homeric in style. The second verse is more vulgar
than the first. Both are sung with gusto at all our best universities. Footballs are made of pig-
skin. In Cincinnati, once nicknamed Porkopolis, we heard that the song "is best rendered when
rendering lard or skinning a beef."

4 t Quickly
ras ie ees See ae oe ae ce et hee ee ee ea = et
@--_4-__1__ - >» Seen ll eens

She prom-ised she'd meet me _ As the clockstruck sev - en-teen, At the

7 ee

stock-yards just ninemiles out of town; Wherethere's pigs' tails and pigs' ears, And

Ee ee
a a ee

tough old Tex-as steers Sell for sir -loin steak at nine-ty cents a pound.

1 She promised she'd meet me
As the clock struck seventeen,
At the stockyards just nine miles out of town;
Where there's pigs' tails and pigs' ears,
And tough old Texas steers
Sell for sirloin steak at ninety cents a pound.

2 She's my darlin', my daisy,
She's humpbacked, she's crazy,
She's knock-kneed, bow-legged, and lame -
(Spoken: Got the rheumatism!)
They say her breath is sweet,
But I'd rather smell her feet,
She's my freckle-faced, consumptive Mary Jane.

NO MORE BOOZE (FIREMAN SAVE MY CHILD)

The phrase '"'rush the growler"' here refers to any receptacle such as a pitcher, a pail, a bucket,
or a tin can, in which draught beer was carried from the bar of a saloon to adjacent premises by
consumers or agents of consumers. . . . About the time this song arose there were mainly three
kinds of saloons in the United States: (1) saloons in bone-dry territory with the doors locked and a
For Sale sign in front; (2) saloons where the doors never closed seven days in the week; (3) saloons
where the doors closed only on Sundays. . . . The period was one provocative of vulgar proverbs,
such as, "The coat and the pants do all the work but the vest gets all the gravy."

Arr. A. G. W.

There was a lit - tleman and he had a _ lit - tle can, And he used torush the
ApS + eS eee Se cae ST ae = a
LS SSS Sas SS

mf °

La 2 a ee a eee eS

e
---

growl - er; He went to the sa-loon on a Sun-day af -ter-noon, And you

SS SS SSS
Sad ineneaet a eal ; oe
aaa 6 5 z its

No more booze, no more booze,

NO MORE BOOZE

no more booze on Sun-day; Nomorebooze, no more booze, Got to get your can filled

a ps - -
[ SS
=> fN
Se So a <= SS S
--- - of = a us: ----
+e.
> . -_- ° °
Mon -day. She's the on - ly girl I love, . . . With a face like a horse and

°

lunga rr 0
eal
-

Lean-ing up a-gainst the lake,

O fire-man! save my child!

1 There was a little man and he had a little can, She's the only girl I love,

And he used to rush the growler; With a face like a horse and buggy.

He went to the saloon on a Sunday afternoon, Leaning up against the lake,

And you ought to heard the bartender holler: O fireman! save my child!

Chorus: 2 The chambermaid came to my door,
No more booze, no more booze, "Get up, you lazy sinner,
No more booze on Sunday; We need those sheets for table-cloths
No more booze, no more booze, And it's almost time for dinner."'
Got to get your can filled Monday. Chorus:
