When children in the old days asked for a story or a song, the older folks sometimes gave both
in a ballad such as this, which seems to have been known in Hartfordshire, England, in Massachu-
setts and Virginia, before it traveled to Illinois and the midwest. There were children heard a
father or uncle, a mother or aunt, sing it hundreds of times. 'We'll go over to Aunt Mehitable and
ask her to sing 'Down, Down Derry Down.'" Eyes were shiny with fascination over the boy
hero selling the cow, matching his wits against the robber, and bringing home a horse, bags of gold,
and "bright pistols.' The line "Down, down derry down," was useful; the singer while giving
that line could refresh his recollection about the next verse; in the same moment the children could
be guessing about what would happen next; they enjoy such guessing as they also enjoy wondering
how many more verses there can be; and naturally, those well acquainted with a long ballad watch
and wait for their favorite verses. 'Text and tune here are from Margery K. Forsythe of Chicago,
who tells us, "Down, Down Derry Down was sung in our family before the Revolution. My mother
(1860) heard her grandmother (1793) sing it and she in turn remembered it farther back. The first
two lines of the third verse were lost and these are impromptu."

Atr. Ho FOP.

=

Oh! La-diesand gen - the -men,please to drawnear; I'll sing of a man wholivedin

-<-- 7 oe (one es ----- = Sat Ky ==

do his busi-ness, his name was called John. Down, Down Der - ry "Dees

1 Oh! Ladies and gentlemen, please to draw near; I'll sing of a man who lived in Hartfordshire.
A fine Hartfordshire boy he had for his man to do his business, his name was called John.
Down, Down Derry Down (repeat this line after each verse).

2 Bright early one morning he to him did come, saying, "John, take my cow to the fair in the town.
Oh, this very day take my cow to the fair, for she's in good order and her I can spare."

3 So John took the cow and rode to the fair; "I'll make a good bargain," he then did declare.
And on the way there he met with a man and sold him the cow for six pound ten.

4 The man had paid the boy down all the chink, when they went into an ale-house to drink,
And unto the landlady then he did say, "'Oh, what shall I do with this money I pray?"

5 "Sew it into your coat lining,"' then she did say, "Lest you should be robbed upon the highway."
There sat a highwayman a-drinking his wine; he said to himself, "'That money is mine."

6 The boy took his leave and away he did go, the highwayman followed soon after also;
He soon overtook him upon the highway, "' You're well overtaken, young lad," he did say.

7 "Oh, jump up behind me," the highwayman said; "' How far are you going?" replied the young lad.
"About four miles further for all that I know," so he jumped up behind and away they did go.

8 They rode until they came to a dark lane; the highwayman said, "I must tell you now plain,
Deliver your money without any strife, or I will assuredly take your sweet life."

9 The boy, seeing there was no chance for dispute, he jumped from the horse and the money pulled
out.
And from his coat-lining the money pulled out and in the long grass he strewed it about.

10 The highwayman immediately jumped from his horse, but little he judged it was for his loss,
For while he was putting it into his purse, the boy took his leave and rode off with the horse,

11 The highwayman hollooed and bade him to stay,.the boy never minded but still rode away,
And unto his master's house he did bring horse, saddle and bridle and many fine thing.

12 On searching the saddle-bags, as we are told, there were ten thousand pounds in silver and gold,
Beside two bright pistols - the boy said, "I trow, I think, my dear master, I've sold well your
cow!"

13 His master smiled when him he had told, saying, "'As for a boy you've been very bold,
As for the highwayman, he's lost all his store, let him go a-robbing until he gets more."
