This is the classical American rural tune. It goes back to "Zip Coon" and early minstrel songs.
Tt has been sung at horses and mules from a million wagons. It has a thousand verses, if all were
gathered. In the solitudes of tall timbers it has been the companion of berry pickers in summer
and squirrel hunters in fall time. On mornings when the frost was on the pumpkin and the fodder
in the shock, when nuts were ripe and winter apples ready for picking, it echoed amid the horizons
of the Muskingum river of Ohio and the Ozark foothills of Missouri. Arguments have been pre-
sented that the turkey, the Thanksgiving bird, is more the Yankee national emblem than the eagle.
Maybe so. Anyhow the turkey has a song of the people and the eagle hasn't. And as a song it
smells of hay mows up over barn dance floors, steps around like an apple-faced farmhand, has the
whiff of a river breeze when the catfish are biting, and rolls along like a good wagon slicked up with
new axlegrease on all four wheels. It is as American as Andrew Jackson, Johnny Appleseed, and
Corn-on-the-Cob.

Text B. was printed by Delaney who tells me this is the earliest stage version he knows of and
it is at least fifty years old. With a little "puckering in" and doubling up, the lines can be adjusted
to the harmonized melody. Text C. is a 1925 ditty from the oil fields of Ohio; Paul Schact, of
Columbus, passed it along; like oil strikes, gushers, wildcats, doodlebugs, it is a little mysterious.

Crack my whip and the lead- er" sprung; I says day - day to the

=a
-o~
Saas
5 REFRAIN
(ee | ee ee ee ae ee
AND. ir en en a ee eee
Tur-key in thestraw, tur-key in the hay, Roll'em up andtwist'em up a

Pa = : l = jee |
eee
: mes 5 ic

Se ae
= re REE EP Sra aT

high tuck -a-haw, And hit 'em up a_ tune called Tur-key in the Straw!

ee
| =

| |

eS Se
: = SS

oe
ee Rs ee ee

2. Wentout to milk and I did-n't knownow,I milked the goat in- stead of thecow. A

hat a Le Ne dea pees OT ea pL wees a
ae ee a

mon-key sit-tin' on a pile of straw A-wink-in' at his moth-er - in - law.

| cect 1
| - ee eo
ss
--

REFRAIN

| fa Se a eee

a Sa SS ae, LS

ante
ASP,

TS : - =H r Sa * a
C -- ee a oe a pane 2 > pee ee Hl
high tuck-a-haw, And hit 'em up a _ tune called Tur-key in the Straw.

: 4 a

= SS ee

vs > an

1 As I was a-gwine down the road,
Tired team and a heavy load,
Crack my whip and the leader sprung;
I says day-day to the wagon tongue.
Turkey in the straw, turkey in the hay,
Roll 'em up and twist 'em up a high tuckahaw,
And hit 'em up a tune called Turkey in the Straw.
2 Went out to milk and I didn't know how,
I milked the goat instead of the cow.
A monkey sittin' on a pile of straw
A-winkin' at his mother-in-law.

Turkey in the straw, turkey in the hay, etc.

3 Met Mr. Catfish comin' down stream,

Says Mr. Catfish, "What does you mean?"
Caught Mr. Catfish by the snout

And turned Mr. Catfish wrong side out.
Turkey in the straw, turkey in the hay, etc.
4 Came to the river and I couldn't get across
Paid five dollars for an old blind hoss
Wouldn't go ahead, nor he wouldn't stand still
So he went up and down like an old saw mill.
Turkey in the straw, turkey in the hay, etc.
5 As I came down the new cut road
Met Mr. Bullfrog, met Miss Toad
And every time Miss Toad would sing
Ole Bullfrog cut a pigeon wing.

Turkey in the straw, turkey in the hay, etc.

6 OI jumped in the seat, and I gave a little yell,
The horses run away, broke the wagon all to hell;
Sugar in the gourd and honey in the horn,

I never was so happy since the hour I was born.
Turkey in the straw, turkey in the hay, ete.

B

Went down to New Orleans, got on a fence, Tom Turkey in de buckwheat straw.
Dutchman asked me I talk French, dat's nine points ob de law;

Hit 'em in de head wid a great big brick, Tom Turkey in de buckwheat straw,
Didn't I make dat nigger look sick, dat's nine points ob de law.

Refrain: ;
Den a turkey in a straw, den a turkey in a straw;
Roll a web of straw 'round to hide de turkey's paw,
And we'll shake 'em up a tune called Turkey in a Straw.

Tobacco am an Ingin weed, Tom Turkey in de buckwheat straw,

From de debil it did seed, dat's nine points ob de law;

Rots your pocket, scents your clothes, Tom Turkey in a buckwheat straw.
Makes a chimbley of your nose, dat's nine points ob de law.

Refrain:

C

Said the tooler to the driller, "'Will you dance me a jig?"
"O yes, by golly, if I tear down the rig."

So he took down the wrench that the contractor stole,
And he danced a jig around the ten-inch hole.

or

WHO WILL SHOE YOUR PRETTY LITLE FOOT ?

One night after I had given my song and guitar recital at Indiana University, I went with
Prof. Frank C. Senour to his room and we sang and talked till three o'clock in the morning. He
had in his heart and memory a little piece that he called "exquisite"; that is the word. As a boy
growing up in Brown County, Indiana, he heard his mother sing it at dish washing and sewing and
mending, and sometimes for company. He remembered only the verse given below in text A.
R. W. Gordon gave me text B and I went to Alexander Whitelaw's "Book of Scottish Ballads" for
text C, where it is titled, "Fair Annie of Lochyran." In another old version, it is known as "The
Lass of Loch Royal." A little book could be written around this song and all its ramifications
in the past.

Arr: L. S.
-« SS
{vee 2 | ec eee it seas pon are ee ve --
aa who will shoe your pret-ty lit-tle foot, And who will pie your hand, Eb.

eS ee SEs = le
ae Scania Pe Fir fer

who will kiss your ru - by Be When I've goneto the for - eign
7N
ee oe J
eS a ee 3 -sS War EE PS Sal fl
é = ----- ----- eal

= . e
Se esa ee oe es z age |

A
O, who will shoe your pretty little foot,
And who will glove your hand,
And who will kiss your ruby lips
When I've gone to the foreign land?

B
THE TRUE LOVER'S FAREWELL

"Farewell, farewell, my pretty maid,
Fare-thee-well for a while;
For I'm going away ten thousand miles,
Ten thousand miles from here.
