4 She took me in her parlor, she cooled me with her fan,
She whispered low in her mother's ears, "I love this gambling man!"

5 "O daughter, O dear daughter, how could you treat me so,
~~ To leave your dear old mother and with a gambler go?"

6 "O mother, O dear mother, you know I love you well,
But the love I hold for this gambling man no human tongue can tell.

7 "T wouldn't marry a farmer, for he's always in the rain;
The man I want is the gambling man who wears the big gold chain.

8 "TI wouldn't marry a doctor, he is always gone from home:
All I want is the gambling man, for he won't leave me alone.

9 "T wouldn't marry a railroad man, and this is the reason why;
I never seen a railroad man that wouldn't tell his wife a lie.

10 "I hear the train a-coming, she's coming around the curve,
Whistling and a-blowing and straining every nerve.

11 "O mother, O dear mother, I'll tell you if I can;
If you ever see me coming back again I'll be with the gambling man."

B
YONDER COMES MY PRETTY LITTLE GIRL
1 Yonder comes my pretty little girl, 2 Yonder comes my pretty little girl,
She's a-goin' all dressed in red. How do you know?
I looked down at her pretty little feet, I know her by her bright apron strings
I wish my wife was dead. Hangin' down so low.

3 O, I've gambled in the wildwoods,
I've gambled in the Lane;
I've gambled in the wildwoods
And I never lost a game.

C
THE GAMBOLING MAN

1 Iam a roving traveler and go from town to town,
Whene'er I see a table spread so merrily I sit down.

2 I had not been traveling but a few days, perhaps three,
When I fell in love with a London girl, and she in love with me.

3 She took me to her dwelling and cooled me with a fan.
She whispered low in her mother's ear, I love the gamboling man.

4 Oh, daughter, dear daughter, how could you treat me so,
To leave your poor old mother and with the gamboler go?

5 'Tis true I love you dearly, 'tis true I love you well,
But the love I have for the gamboling man no human tongue can tell.

6 So I'll bundle up my clothing, with him will leave my home,
I'll travel the world over wherever he may roam.
