In the years when Jack the Ripper was baffling the police of London with his murders of women,
feaving mutilated victims in the Whitechapel district, there flourished in Chicago an organization
of newspaper men known as the Whitechapel Club. Its rooms fronted on the alley at the rear of
Lhe Chicago Daily News office, between Fifth Avenue and La Salle Street. George Ade says of
the club, "It was a little group of thirsty intellectuals who were opposed to everything. The fact
that Jack the Ripper was their patron saint will give a dim idea of the hard-boiledness of the organiza-
tion. They had kind words and excuses for many of the anarchists who had been hanged for the
bomb-throwing at the Haymarket riot. They were social revolutionists and single-taxers and haters
of the rich. They scoffed at the conventional and orthodox and deplored the cheap futility of their
own slave-tasks as contributors to the daily press. They were young men enjoying their first revolt."
Ade, James Keeley, Finley Peter Dunne, Brand Whitlock, John T. McCutcheon, Ben King, Drury
Underwood and others were members. It was about the time of the Chestnut Bell, an attachment
for men's vests; when a story that had been told many times before was narrated, it was the custom
to give a ring or two on the bells, signifying that the hearers had heard the story once or twice. At
the Whitechapel Club, however, instead of ringing Chestnut Bells, they sang a song. The verses,
as given below, are jointly from James Keeley and George Ade while the melody is a Keeley reminis-
cence. Ade tells us that Rudyard Kipling remembered his evening at their club because, later on,
he tried to recall and write the words of the club song.

ai hese 1
ses a a Sa
In thedays of old Ram-e - ses, are you on, are you on? a. told the

(== Se

same thing, the ve - ry same thing. In  thedays of old Ram-e - ses, that

(2S = SS SS SS Se

sto- ry had pa-vre - sis, Are you on, are you on, are you _ on?

1 In the days of old Rameses, are you on, are you on?
They told the same thing, the very same thing.
In the days of old Rameses, that story had paresis,
Are you on, are you on, are you on?

2 Adam told it to the beast before the fall, are you on?
He told the same thing, the very same thing.
When he told it to the creatures, it possessed redeeming features,
But to tell it now requires a lot of gall.

3 Joshua told it to the boys before the wall, are you on?
He told the same thing, the very same thing
At the wall of Jericho before the wall began to fall,
Are you on, are you on, are you on?

4 In the days of Sodom and Gomorrah, are you on?
They told the same thing, the very same thing;
In Sodom and Gomorrah, people told it to their sorrow,
Are you on, are you on, are you on?

5 In the days of ancient Florence, are you on?
They told the same thing, the very same thing;
In the days of ancient Florence, it was held in great abhorrence,
Are you on, are you on, are you on?
