In the first Oklahoma land rush in the late 'Eighties, was a woman who rode a wild horse and
staked out a claim worth having. In the years that came she raised corn, broom corn, alfalfa, soy
beans - and three daughters who had freckle faces, hair of a dark gold corn silk, and sweet dis-
positions. Time passed. The family moved. New York was their home, the address was on
Eighty-eighth Street, and the number in the phone book. They were now far from Oklahoma.
Yet there came one cold rainy night to their fireside, their steam radiator, a young man who had
raised corn, broom corn, alfalfa, and soy beans in Kansas, the next state to Oklahoma and standing
on the same big prairie. They sang on that cold rainy night, those people around the steam radiator.
And one of the songs was Rosie Nell. 'It was a comfort to us in those days of the first Oklahoma
land rush,"' said the woman who rode a wild horse to stake out a claim.

Andantino, quasi allegretto Arr. A. G. W.

Se ee ee

ow oft I dream of child-hooddays, of tricks we used to play Up -

2S =

Os 9 see Oa ee
| Sons

mp Tranquitlo, alla pastorale

on each oth-er when atschool,to pass the time a- way. They of - ten wished me
an ae

I'd rath-er be with Ro-sie Nell, a -

: @ ee
aes oo oer an heemaee
A-swing-ing in the lane, . a-swing-ing in the

be with Ro - sie, Nell,

Td

rath - er a-swing-ing in

== =

D.C.

I'd rath-er be with Ro- sie Nell, a-swing-ing in the lane.

1 How oft I dream of childhood days, of tricks we used to play
Upon each other when at school, to pass the time away.
They often wished me with them, but they always wished in vain;
I'd rather be with Rosie Nell, a-swinging in the lane.

Refrain:
A-swinging in the lane, a-swinging in the lane,
I'd rather be with Rosie Nell, a-swinging in the lane,
A-swinging in the lane, a-swinging in the lane,
I'd rather be with Rosie Nell, a-swinging in the lane.

2 But soon a cloud of sorrow came; a strange young man from town,
Was introduced to Rosie Nell by Aunt Jemima Brown;
She stayed away from school next day, the truth to me was plain;
She'd gone with that young city chap, a-swinging in the lane.
Refrain:

3 Now all young men with tender hearts, pray take advice from me;
Don't be so quick to fall in love, with every girl you see;
For if you do you soon will find, you've only loved in vain;
She'll go off with some other chap, a-swinging in the lane.

Refrain:
