Lem Parton, a New York journalist who farms at Sneeden's Landing up the Hudson, gives
the following version of a highbrow folk song which has several variants.

-- = 2S) SSS Se oe ea ee
Se

oe oe

have led a_ good life, full of peace and qui - et,

(2225S 22225 2 >

I shall have an _ old age full- -of rum and ri~=--ob;
eee ae [See ee ee eg ee ee ere \ are ah, East os
Fa ---- Spa pe Z oe a
I have _ been a good boy, wed to peace and stud - y,

fN
a SS Se ee ee
SSS SS
2 Ve
I. shall have an _ old age, ri - bald, coarse,and blood - y. ,

1 I have led a good life, full of peace and quiet,
I shall have an old age full of rum and riot;
I have been a good boy, wed to peace and study,
I shall have an old age, ribald, coarse and bloody.

2 I have never cut throats, even when I yearned to,
Never sang dirty songs that my fancy turned to;
I have been a nice boy and done what was expected,
I shall be an old bum loved but unrespected.

WILLY THE WEEPER

R. W. Gordon in his editorship of the Adventure magazine department 'Old Songs That
Men Have Sung" received thirty versions of Willy the Weeper, about one hundred verses different.
Willy shoots craps with kings, plays poker with presidents, eats nightingale tongues a queen cooks
for him; his Monte Carlo winnings come to a million, he lights his pipe with a hundred dollar bill,
he has heart affairs with Cleopatra, the Queen of Sheba, and movie actresses.

As against versions of this heard in Detroit and New York, we prefer the one by Henry (Hinky)
McCarthy of the University of Alabama. He gives it with pauses, with mellowed, mellifluous tones,
with an insinuating guitar accompaniment. The lines ''Teet tee dee dee dee dee," are lingering
and dreamy, supposed to indicate regions where the alphabet is not wanted.

Arr. L. S.

Did you ev - er hear the sto - ry *bout Wil- ly, the Weep-er? Made his

chim-ney - sweeper. He had thedopehab-it an' he had it bad;

SS Sea

Lis-tenwhile I tell you'bout thedream he had: 'Teet tee dee dee dee dee,

q ll
il
LL
lem ||
:
tH

WILLY THE WEEPER

a ~ (very freely)

7A ES ESS ES DEES aa = eel Es js pre S35) a

ee Se a ee
-

ee
toot toodoo doo doo doo, Yahdee dah dah, dee dee dee,dee dah dah!.

1 Did you ever hear the story "bout Willy the Weeper?
Made his livin' as a chimney-sweeper.
He had the dope habit an' he had it bad;
Listen while I tell you *bout the dream he had:
Teet tee dee dee dee dee, toot too doo doo doo doo,
Yah dee dah dah, dee dee dee, dee dah dah!

2 He went down to the dope house one Saturday night,
An' he knew that the lights would be burnin' bright.
I guess he smoked a dozen pills or mo';
When he woke up he wuz on a foreign sho':
Teet tee dee dee dee dee, toot too doo doo doo doo, etc.

3 Queen o' Bulgaria wuz the first he met;
She called him her darlin' an' her lovin' pet.
She promised him a pretty Fohd automobile,
With a diamond headlight an' a silver steerin'-wheel:
Teet tee dee dee dee dee, toot too doo doo doo doo, etc.

4 She had a million cattle, she had a million sheep;
She had a million vessels on the ocean deep;
She had a million dollahs, all in nickles an' dimes;
She knew 'cause she counted them a million times:
Teet tee dee dee dee dee, toot too doo doo doo doo, ete.

5 Willy landed in New York one evenin' late,
He asked his sugar baby for an after-date.
Willy he got funny, she began to shout:
Bim bam boo! - an' the dope gave out.
Teet tee dee dee dee dee, toot too doo doo doo doo, ete.
