Four times a year for twenty-two years William W. Delaney published at Park Row, New York,
his ten-cent songbook, each one with about 170 songs, words only. "On the last page or two," he
told me, "I always put a few old ones." A favorite of his, among the old ones, is Ten Thousand
Miles Away. "It's a good song, you can have it," he said as I took down the notes. "Some
mighty good men have sung it. The songs these days are cheap alongside what we used to have.
You can't find tunes now like you could in the old days." And he said, after singing, "It's one
people have forgotten. I don't know how old it is. The old men who sang it for me when I was
a boy said it was an old song then. And they learned it from old men when they were boys."

SS SS
ws

Sing I for a brave and a_ gal- lantbarque, and a stiff and a rat-tling

aes ne ee ee
Freee SSS

breeze, A_ bul - ly crew and a cap-tain true, to car- ry me over the

SS es

seas; . car -ry me over the seas, my boys, to my true love so
as Sere ps ge ig ee
~-_ eo | 2 se oe oe -
gay - ay - ay, . Whowent on a trip in a Gov-ern-ment ship ten
REFRAIN
Se ri
= - eT ee Sn ey raeey ae
(Se 5 22 3-bE =
thous-and miles a - pent Bio ye winds, hi oh! . A-roam-ing I will
o St 5 Seen Sees on ee
Fe ee ee
go, . I'llstay no more on Eng-land'sshore, so let the mus - ic play; .
ee eee ee Szram! Ssstesn mse asc eaaerme Gal (or aa = Da
Gare ee er eS eet eee Fee eee
I'll start by the morn- ing train . to cross the rag - ing main,

For 'm on the road to my own true love, ten thous-and miles a - way!

1 Sing I for a brave and a gallant barque, and a stiff and a rattling breeze,

A bully crew, and a Captain, true, to carry me o'er the seas;
To carry me o'er the seas, my boys, to my true love so gay-ay-ay,
Who went on a trip in a Government ship ten thousand miles away!

Refrain:

Blow, ye winds, hi oh! a-roaming I will go,

Ill stay no more on England's shore, so let the music play;

I'll start by the morning train to cross the raging main,

For I'm on the road to my own true love, ten thousand miles away!

My true love she was uandsome, my true love she was young,

Her eyes were blue as the violet's hue, and silvery was the sound of her tongue;
And silvery was the sound of her tongue, my boys, and, while I sing this lay-ay-ay,
She's a-doing of the grand in a far off land, ten thousand miles away!

Refrain:

Dark and dismal was the day when last I seen my Meg,

She'd a Government band around each hand, and another one round her leg;
And another one round her leg, my boys, as the big ship left the bay-ay-ay,
Adieu, said she, remember me, ten thousand miles away!

Refrain:

Oh! if I were a sailor lad, or even a bombardier,

I'd hire a boat and go afloat, and straight to my true love steer;
And straight to my true love steer, my boys, where the dancing dolphins play-ay-ay,
And the whales and sharks kick up their larks, ten thousand miles away!
Refrain:

The sun may shine through a London fog, or the river run bright and clear,
The ocean's brine be changed to wine, and I forget my beer,

And I forget my beer, my boys, or the landlord's quarter day-ay-ay,

But never will I part from my own sweetheart ten thousand miles away.

Refrain:
