Po' Boy is a jail song in Oklahoma and Texas. It is also heard among post-graduates from
jail in the federal penitentiary at Leavenworth, Kansas. We are left to infer that if the "'po' boy"
had made a safe getaway after taking a bag of mail from the baggage car, the woman in the case
would not have run away with another man but would have stayed with him to enjoy the loot.
The lilt of the song is almost gay throughout except for the steady beat of the mournful, melodious
vocables of "po' boy." The "Katy" train is a reference to the Missouri, Kansas & Texas, or
"K.T." railway. Of course, though this is a jail song, it is sung by many who are free and "outside."

Allegretto Arr. L. R. G.

My mam-my's in the

cold,cold ground; My dad-dy went a - way;

gam-blin®? man; And now I've gone a -- stray. . . I sit here in the

pris - on; I do the best I can; But I get to think-in' of the
ecm

~ ---- -- @ -__ e+ -__ +
¥ ate Vv v

wom - an I love;Sheran a - way withan-oth - er man. .

L _# CuHoRrus
' a Se ee SA
a ee ee ee BO SA eee ES

She ran a-way with an-oth-er man, po' boy, She ran a-way with an-oth-er

think-in' of the wom-an

ea elo

She ran a-way with an-oth-er man,

es lie Be re -
a oleae tase ene 2 , E ie el

1 My mammy's in the cold, cold ground;

My daddy went away;

My sister married a gamblin' man;

And now I've gone astray.

I sit here in the prison;

I do the best I can;

But I get to thinkin' of the woman I love;
She ran away with another man.

Chorus: She ran away with another man, po' boy,
She ran away with another man.
I get to thinkin' of the woman I love;
She ran away with another man.

2 Away out on the prairie,

I stopped that Katy train;

I took the mail from the baggage car;

And walked away in the rain.

They got the bloodhounds on me,

And chased me up a tree;

And then they said, "" Come down, my boy,
And go to the penitentiaree."

Chorus: She ran away with another man, po' boy, etc.

"Oh, mister judge, oh, mister judge,

What are you going to do to me? "

"Tf the jury finds you guilty, my boy,

I'm going to send you to the penitentiaree."'
They took me to the railroad station;

A train came rolling by;

I looked in the window, saw the woman I love;
Hung down my head and cried.

Chorus: Hung down my head in shame, po' boy,
Hung down my head and cried;
I looked in the window, saw the woman I love,
Hung down my head and cried, po' boy!

Y
= -
Ww
ritard.

THE OULD SOD

AS I WAS WALKIN' DOWN WEXFORD STREET
SH-TA-RA-DAH-DEY (IRISH LULLABY)

SHE SAID THE SAME TO ME. ; :
WHO'S THE PRETTY GIRL MILKIN' THE COW?
GIVE ME THREE GRAINS OF CORN, MOTHER
KEVIN BARRY

THE SON OF A GAMBOLIER

HARMONIZATION BY
Lillian Rosedale Goodman
Edward Collins
Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .

Mollie Nemkovsky :

PAGE

AS I WAS WALKIN' DOWN WEXFORD STREET

This should be sung easily and casually to begin with, but in the end it is a Celtic "crying out
loud." The mood or tone seems to be of that important Irish drama, "The White Headed Boy,"
where there is trouble for everybody with nobody to blame, or all at fault. This lilt, too, is from

Mother McKinley, formerly of McKinley, Iowa, and later of Chicago.
Arr. L. R. G.

Se ee

As I was walk-in' down Wex-ford Street Me

Andante moderato

ee ee

fa - ther'shouse I chanc't to meet; Me a - ged fa-therstoodin the dure, An' me

While me ten -der moth-er her hair she ture.

0 Ss
sis - terstoodon the flure,

oases je =
Ss == , eer a ms
SS eee -_
nae annnSEEeeee i Zz SA
ee ae te am 5 is has
-=aae : fi = : CS ree I
= ee | | t-4 2

As I was walkin' down Wexford Street
Me father's house I chanc't to meet;

Me aged father stood in the dure,

An' me sister stood on the flure,

While me tender mother her hair she ture.

SH-TA-RA-DAH-DEY
(IRISH LULLABY)

This little croon is an impromptu, made up in some hour when a man or woman holding a baby,
or rocking a cradle, needed hushing words for a hushing tune. Of course, the statistical information
that a dollar a day is all they pay for work on the boulevard does not interest a sleepy child, but as
crooned by Robert E. Lee, of the Chicago Tribune, the word "boul-e-vard"' has comforting and sooth-
ing quality. Lee heard the song from an Irishman in charge of the railroad station at Wallingford,
Towa. While selling passenger tickets, or making out way-bills, or figuring freight demurrage, or
hustling trunks off and on baggage cars, or piling crates of eggs, "the agent" would ease his heart
with this lullaby.

Arr. E. C,
- With a sigh pp
are, --_ : aH +
apo --<--- = Se ea

Sh - ta-ra-dah-dey, sh-ta- dey,Times is might -y

Ne
hard. A dol-lar a day is all they pay ee work on the ae - e
(S| Seeeese ennai neat
O_O - $e: -t-- = =
Gueeeeeeer © Sees ae ee :
oe.

S€NZA Creésc.

2S SS SS ee ao.

vard. Sh - ta- ra-dah-dey, sh-ta-dey, Times is might-y eres

SH-TA-RA-DAH-DEY

dol-lar a day is all theypay Forwork on the boul

- e-vard.
oft sa sae Fiennes a ee Pe
ae o-- as ae Se! BAS AEAN RORY PORES FX
>

i sa
Sh - ta - ra - dah- dey, sh - ta -dey, Times is might - y harde. < A
z= te 2. fogs 2 (ero :
= = peli amcor ee ee

Sparse':

dol-lar a day is all they pay For work on the boul - e - vard.

Sh-ta-ra-dah-dey, sh-ta-dey,
Times is mighty hard.

A dollar a day is all they pay
For work on the boulevard.
Sh-ta-ra-dah-dey, sh-ta-dey,
Times is mighty hard.

A dollar a day is all they pay
For work on the boulevard.
Sh-ta-ra-dah-dey, sh-ta-dey,
Times is mighty hard.

A dollar a day is all they pay
For work on the boulevard.

SHE SAID THE SAME TO ME

A briefly etched love story is here, with only a first chapter, leaving the middle and ending
chapters untold. There may be other verses telling of marriage and children, or of fate that ran
otherwise. It is a true Irish lilt, and was sung by folks from the Ould Sod who settled in Iowa.
This version is from Mother McKinley of the family from whom the town of McKinley, Iowa,
was named.

Arr. A. G. W.

or the mid-dle of Ju - ly, . . One

*Twas in the month of Au - gust, .

Se"
eve- ning I went walk-ing, . a _ fair maid-en I did  spy;. . She was

melancontco
SS
SS
mourn -in' for her true Pees who was in A - mer - i - kee, . . Agh,

SHE SAID THE SAME TO ME

fN
------ = SSS i---=||
pe ee Se eae 2 ra er 2
! . .

div - il a word I said to her, and she said the same to me!

*T was in the month of August, or the middle of July,

One evening I went walking, a fair maiden I did spy;

She was mournin' for her true love, who was in Amerikee,
Agh, divil a word I said to her, and she said the same to me!

WHO'S THE PRETTY GIRL MILKIN' THE COW?

The fragment here is probably a make-over, a distillation, from an Irish song of lesser grace
and melody. Bob Lee sang this for me, but wasn't sure he had the words right; he would see the
traffic policeman, Tom Burke, and be sure; and Burke said, "'Why should ye be wantin' that little

song? It's old. Everybody knows it."
Arr. A. G. W.

= ee

O'twas on a bright morn - my in sum-mer When I first heard her

> =
- oF = a= -T--- eee =
= COe --- a o E Z "
fp
(leggiero) (mp) ide ------ ee

- 'ra eem - ES = a GSS

voice sing - in' low As he said_ to a col - leen be -

os e
a oer 3
(49- (e- < <
aes Sa <-@ <-@-__-_-<-. -<
Ss se - = as os ue + =
SSS ee
---- < > ; i--- ° °
- ees er
eS
< wy 4 oe

side him:''Who'sthe pret - ty girl milk - in' the cow?"

O 'twas on a bright mornin' in summer
When I first heard her voice singin' low
As he said to a colleen beside him:
"Who's the pretty girl milkin' the cow?"
