Tongues of love and hate, breaths of passion and suffering, all mingled with a strange bitter-
sweet, are in this song out of the violent events in Ireland. Probably all wars and revolutions
produce figures like Kevin Barry, though seldom do they have such adequate songs as memorials.
In Nashville, Tennessee, one may look at the statue of Sam Davis, who died refusing to turn in-
former and thus save his life. Davis has a statue in bronze; Kevin Barry has a song. These
verses and their wistful, longing melody are from Irish boys and girls in Chicago who learned the
ballad on the Ould Sod.

Arr. M.N.
- Sasa es Sci = ihren aia Kaos
a ee ae ewe de ee
Ear-ly on a Mon-day morn-ing, High up - on the gal - lows tree,

ee

Key -in Bar - ry gave his young life For the cause of lib - ra SAN

Se ee

1 Early on a Monday morning,
High upon the gallows tree,
Kevin Barry gave his young life
For the cause of liberty.

2 Only a lad of eighteen summers,
Still there's no one can deny,
As he walked to death that morning
Nobly held his head up high.

$8 Another martyr for old Ireland,
Another murder for the crown,
Brutal laws to crush the Irish
Could not keep their spirits down.

4 Lads like Barry are no cowards.

From their foes they do not fly;
For their bravery always has been
Treland's cause to live or die.

"Kevin Barry, do not leave us,
On the scaffold you must die!"'
Cried his broken-hearted mother
As she bade her son good-bye.

Kevin turned to her in silence
Saying, 'Mother, do not weep,
For it's all for dear old Ireland
And it's all for freedom's sake."

7 Just before he faced the hangman

In his lonely prison cell,
The Black and Tans tortured Barry,
Just because he wouldn't tell

The names of his brave comrades,
And other things they wished to know.
"Turn informer and we'll free you."
But Kevin proudly answered "No!

"Shoot me like a soldier.

Do not hang me like a dog,
For I fought to free old Ireland
On that still September morn.

"All around the little bakery
Where we fought them hand to hand,

Shoot me like a brave soldier,
For I fought for Ireland."

THE SON OF A GAMBOLIER>

Misery with a light-hearted lilt ....a far-flung companion of roving men.

I'm a ram-blingwretchof pov - er-ty, from Tip -'ry town I came. "Iwas
Refrain: Then com-bine your hum-ble dit - ties as from tav-ern to tav-ern we steer; Like
= ee

po - ver-ty com-pelled me first to go out in the rain; In_ all sorts of

ev - e-ry  hon- est fel-low, I drinks my la - ger beer; Like ev - 'ry_ hon-

wea-ther,be it wet or be it dry, I amboundto get my live - li- hood, or
est fel-low, I takes my whis-key clear, I'm a ram-bling wretch of pov -er - ty, and the

Sree

son of agam-bo-lier. I'm a sonofa,son of a, son of a, son of a,son of agam-bo - lier.

D.C. Rurraiwn (Conclusion of Rerrain)

lay me down and die.

1 I'm a rambling wretch of poverty, from Tip'ry town I came.
*T was poverty compelled me first to go out in the rain;
In all sorts of weather, be it wet or be it dry,
I am bound to get my livelihood or lay me down and die.

Refrain:
Then combine your humble ditties as from tavern to tavern we steer;
Like every honest fellow, I drinks my lager beer;
Like every jolly fellow, I takes my whiskey clear,
I'm a rambling wretch of poverty, and the son of a gambolier -
I'm the son of a, son of a, son of a, son of a, son of a gambolier.

@ I once was tall and handsome, and was so very neat;
They thought I was too good to live, most good enough to eat;
But now I'm old my coat is torn, and poverty holds me fast.
And every girl turns up her nose as I go wandering past.
Refrain:

3 I'm a rambling wretch of poverty, from Tip'ry town I came;
My coat I bought from an old Jew shop way down in Maiden Lane;
My hat I got from a sailor lad just eighteen years ago,
And my shoes I picked from an old dust heap, which every one shunned but me!
Refrain:

I WISH I WAS SINGLE AGAIN
WALKY-TALKY JENNY
HAYSEED . :
GOOD-BY LIZA JANE

WIZARD OIL

MINSTREL SONGS

HARMONIZATION BY

Harry Gilbert .

Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .
Henry Francis Parks

PAGE

I WISH I WAS SINGLE AGAIN

A lawyer with a larger divorce practice than he can handle conveniently tells us that half the
time when divorced men marry again they pick the same kind of a wrong woman a second time.
However that may be today, it seems that the minstrels of a generation past won wide popular
success with a song voicing the troubles of a man who made the same mistake twice. The ditty
spread to mountains and prairies. The version here is one that Edwin Ford Piper heard in Nebraska
when a boy.

Arr, H. G.
Sie a <a ea
O then, then, When I was sin - Bag 8s

sin- gle a- gain, a- gain, And I wish I was sin-gle a - gain.

1 When I was single, O then, O then, 8 My wife she died, O then, O then,
When I was single, O then, My wife she died, O then,
When I was single, my money did jingle, My wife she died, and then I cried,
I wish I was single again, again, To think I was single again, again,
And I wish I was single again. To think I was single again.
2 I married me a wife, O then, O then, 4] married another, the devil's grandmother,
I married me a wife, O then, I wish I was single again, ae
I married me a wife, she's the plague of my life For when I was single, my money did jingle,
And I wish I was single again, again, I wish I was single again, again,
And I wish I was single again. I wish I was single again.

AT
