Tubman K. Hedrick heard this often from a hotel kitchen in Memphis, over and over, day on
day. He said of the lyric, "Love is not love that too openly proclaims itself," adding, "It is a solo
with no audience intended or wanted but one person in the whole world. And as such, the melody
carries the lyric persuasively."

Arr. A. G. W.
Ode See seer a giinles arn ae - ie a
-= es ae Se a ==

O my hon-ey, take meback, O mydahl-in', I'll be true. I ammon'-in' all day

i Supplicatingly ret a

Seg ee a =

ine a
SSS ee

long, O my hon-ey, I eevee you.

have loved you in joy and pain, 4 de

yee =a ase as Se =a

pees

espreesizo molto

=a aa Seege

sun-shine and de rain, O my hon-ey,heahme do, O mydah-lin', I love you.

D ja =
sf ree
of p
Ei to ee
= SS
€ -
1 O my honey, take me back, 2 I have loved you in joy and pain,

O my dahlin', [ll be true. In de sunshine and de rain,
I am mo'nin' all day long, O my honey, heah me do,
O my honey, I love you. O my dahlin', I love you.

WHAT KIN' O' PANTS DOES THE GAMBLER WEAR

The striped elegance of gamblers, the hazards of the meat supply, the troubles of money, love,
and sleep, are themes here. The verses are casual, typical of the impromptu, the "make-up"' song
of the negro, "a product of economic and labor conditions," as Gates Thomas notes in No. 5-of the
Publications of the Texas Folk Lore Society. His songs came from "shiftless and shifting day
laborers and small croppers who follow Lady Luck, Aphrodite, and John Barleycorn." . . . The
tune is close to certain Frog's Courting melodies. . . . '""Gwain" is more accurate than "gwine"
or "g'on." . . . When the wooden slats, on which a mattress lay, broke and went "blam-to-blam,"'
it took a good sleeper to go on drowsing.

== SS ee

What you gwainto do when the meat gives a. my Ba - by? . What you gwain to

Se pee NN ge Ne
re --- -- = =
do whenthe meat gives out, . my Hon - ey? What you gwain to do_ when the
CaS 2 a ee a ee
- =z -@ at oc... 0. ous

6 " 7 6 =
meat givesout? Gwainto set'roun' my do' with my moufin a pout, Forsome -time.

1 What you gwain to do when the meat gives out, my Baby?
What you gwain to do when the meat gives out, my Honey?
What you gwain to do when the meat gives out?

Gwain to set 'roun' my do' with my mouf in a pout,
For sometime.

2 What kin' o' pants does the gambler wear, this mo'nin'?
What kin' o' pants does the gambler wear, this evenin'?
What kin' o' pants does the gambler wear?

Big-legged stripes cost nine a pair
This mo'nin'.

8 What kin' o' shoes does the gambler wear, this mo'nin'?
What kin' o' shoes does the gambler wear, this evenin'?
What kin' o' shoes does the gambler wear?

Yaller toothpicks, cost "leven a pair
This evenin'.

4 Slats in the bed went blam-to-blam, this mo'nin';
Slats in the bed went blam-to-blam, this evenin';
Slats in the bed went blam-to-blam;

Kep' on a-sleepin' like I didn't give a damn
For sometime.

5 I'll be blamed ef I can see, my Baby,
I'll be blamed ef I can see, my Honey,
I'll be blamed ef I can see
How all my money got away from me.

For sometime.
