""Whiskey!"' cried the land rent agitator in a famine year in Ireland. '' Whiskey it is that
makes ye shoot at the landlords - and miss 'em!"? When the Washingtonian Society flourished
in the 1840's its basic argument was that George Washington drank liquor but knew when to stop.
Later came the saying, "The difference between a barber shop and a saloon is that when a man has
had one shave he quits." School children in midwest states in the 1880's carried physiology books
with color charts showing the progress of a drunkard's stomach from the pink of health to the
raging crimson of delirium tremens. The drink habit, as an insidious destroyer, was presented in
church, school, and town opera house, in the play Ten Nights in a Bar Room. The mood of that
melodrama is gathered in these six verses of The Drunkard's Doom. Mary O. Eddy heard it from
old women who sang it as girls in Ohio when the Temperance Movement was using songs in its
crusades. Henry L. Mencken, a chamber music pianist, a composer, a contrapuntalist, a critic of
music and the arts in general, writes the harmonization here.

Arr. H. L. M.
At dawn of a ax saw a aa Stand by a grog. sa- loon:
eS ae spa ener ano
i -s : ieee = Sa - Case errs a - c= a
Que A = =) a a = --
2 oe Z

eyes weresunk, his lips were parch'd,O that's thedrunk-ard's doom.

22 es a

1 At dawn of day I saw a man
Stand by a grog saloon:
His eyes were sunk, his lips were parched,
O that's the drunkard's doom.

2 His little son stood by his side,
And to his father said,
"Father, mother lies sick at home
And sister cries for bread."

83 He rose and staggered to the bar
As oft he'd done before,
And to the landlord smilingly said,
"Just fill me one glass more."

4 The cup was filled at his command,
He drank of the poisoned bowl,
He drank, while wife and children starved,
And ruined his own soul.

5 A year had passed, I went that way,
A hearse stood at the door;
I paused to ask, and one replied,
"The drunkard is no more."

6 I saw the hearse move slowly on,
No wife nor child was there;
They too had flown to heaven's bright home
And left a world of care.

"% Now, all young men, a warning take,
And shun the poisoned bow];
*T will lead you down to hell's dark gate,
And ruin your own soul.
