B
1 Oh, the times are hard and the wages low- 3% To Liverpool I'll take my way-
Amelia, whar you bound to? Amelia, whar you bound to?
The Rocky Mountains is my home, To Liverpool that Yankee school,
Across the Western Ocean. Across the Western Ocean.
2 The Land of Promise there you'll see- 4 There's Liverpool Pat with his tarpaulin hat-
Amelia, whar you bound to? Amelia, whar you bound to?
I'm bound across the western sea, And Yankee Jack the packet rat,
To join the Irish army. Across the Western Ocean.

5 Beware these packet ships, I say-
Amelia, whar you bound to?
They steal your hide and soul away,

JIM FISK .
JESSE JAMES
SAM BASS .

BANDIT BIOGRAPHIES

HARMONIZATION BY

Alfred G. Wathall .
Marion Lychenheim
Alfred G. Wathall .

PAGE

COSAMDOWL, TILER ory

i ts
} Am <ciatehade

SSaz : : G3) POs WY eiigae 7 : 7 mm. 1a a shew

ae.
-~

Fad

=

~ lbonte #4) \ ah "

: " ¥
i. » ?. ~~ :
62h 3 : Ha aiAit VR WO <n D4,
f . ' . « ° *
| ae ¢ ; » SRR bavi b,
oa be *] sad * > * 7 *
--_ -
Fs =
-9 a 7
7 7 _ 5 ' - he
2 a = 4 7 >

e »
. -
4 -> oa = eee
= $ = ma ~~
- a 2 _
a = 4 - U
>
) id =
=
a

a Es
"a ia i» ts

we

oS Ape Tay

b 5m ? »
>?
- au a
ad 8 ' ; 6 Ger -
: bs ~, : a '
We - = ~~ = 7 ~ LHle d tat.

_ © the : 7 j as y 3 ives 4 5 at Veg pedires
an'¢< a? : S inte: 'at. WG

7 . +S eee
> Ohedens 7a - We SO Chey ler eye elie pat
7 74 p< i ' 6
q* > Ff = - 7 od 1 a | =
ie best Core é . Pat Abe
a s oe
ia : i ¥. = 7 .
7 6 \e> to VO... ey 7 a - = a ins Ure 7 7
: -
ae i
=f a» ~ m™ Sut Sn
a °- ae
= * 1) A 7 z y t \
: 7 he ' nye

JIM FISK

Jim Fisk was an American business man who rose from Vermont country peddler to be a Civil
War government supply contractor, a cotton speculator, a Wall Street broker, owner of the Nar-
ragansett Steamship Lines, owner of the Grand Opera House of New York, Colonel of the Ninth
Regiment of the New York National Guard, director of the Erie railroad-and nicknamed "Prince
Erie." He joined Jay Gould and others in a conspiracy to corner the gold of the United States in
1869, was instrumental in bringing on the financial crash of Black Friday, bought and sold judges,
courts, decisions and writs of injunction, was a participant in the corruption of Tweed and Tam-
many. He drove a coach and eight horses around New York soliciting supplies for the Chicago fire
sufferers, sent a carload of provisions and clothes to the stricken city, dispensed charity and won a
large following of people who believed him a hero of proportions and heart.

He managed all things for worldly success till he met Helen Josephine Mansfield. He bought
her a house with the winnings of one night's gambling, gave her horses, jewels, opera box tickets,
and sent her funny, pompous love letters. She was his plaything; he was her pocketbook. She
gave his letters to Edward S. Stokes of Philadelphia, who was the Other Man and who came and
lived with her in the house that was a free gift and token. Newspapers published an affidavit of a
negro butler of this house telling of a plot of Miss Mansfield and Stokes to force Fisk to pay $200,000
to get his letters back, his chuckling, pompous love letters.

When Miss Mansfield sued for libel, Fisk's lawyer declared at the trial, "I expect to show that
Mr. Fisk found this lady without a dollar; that after lavishing upon her means enough to have
satisfied Cleopatra herself, when the supply ceased, means were resorted to for the purpose of re-
newing them. Our defense is that this prosecution has no basis in good faith, nothing but an attempt
to extort money. And have I not a right to show, if such be the fact, that finding this lady without
a dollar, and having enriched her-although like most riches obtained in this way, it is rapidly
disappearing-that she has had resort to this means to replenish her treasury? Cleopatra-aye,
like unto her; for as the Egyptian siren queen is spoken of by the grandest of poets, 'age cannot
wither her, nor custom stale her infinite variety.' "

The defense won. Stokes with a gun met Fisk in the Grand Central Hotel one afternoon and sent
two bullets into his victim, who died that night. Stokes was tried and given a life sentence. Melo-
dramatic newspaper and pulpit comment followed. Of the three actors in the tragedy, a writer
declared, "One goes, how unprepared! to his long home-one goes to the solitary gloom of a murder-
er's cell-one to a life of deep, dark, ungovernable remorse." Henry Ward Beecher turned loose
an invective declaring:

"And that supreme mountebank of fortune-the astounding event of his age: that a man with
some smartness in business, but absolutely without moral sense, and as absolutely devoid of shame
as the desert of Sahara is of grass-that this man, with one leap, should have vaulted to the very
summit of power in New York, and for seven to ten years should have held the courts in his hands,
and the Legislature and the most consummate invested interest of the land in his hands, and laughed
at England and laughed at New York, and matched himself against the financial skill of the whole
city, and outwitted the whole, and rode out to this hour in glaring and magnificent prosperity-
shameless, vicious, criminal, abominable in his lusts, and flagrant in his violation of public decency
-that this man should have been the supremest there; and yet in an instant, by the hand of a fellow
culprit, God's providence struck him to the ground! And yet I say to every young man who has
looked upon this glaring meteor, and seen his course of prosperity, and thought that perhaps in-
tegrity was not so necessary, 'Mark the end of the wicked man,' and turn back again to the ways of
integrity." :

JIM FISK

And there came a song registering its own viewpoint, using the memory of Jim Fisk, a briber
and corruptionist of courts, as an instance in which to lament the ancient fact that the poor get the
worst of it when they go into court against the rich. . . . Text and tune here are from N. D. Cochran
of Toledo, Ohio, who knows much more than most men do about corrupt courts, fixed juries, and
crooked judges. The song is melodramatic and has maudlin lines. Yet it has been widely known
and sung across decades in which Jim Fisk, his woman, his assassin, and all their follies were for-
gotten and being forgotten were forgiven. It has lived on and had a certain folk song vitality as a
cry for justice, as a moan over money and cunning, greed and hypocrisy, so often winning the
authorities and the decisions, the power and the glory.

mf Tempo di valse, moderato -
areas ? reer :
ine ae ST ant faa

A
(40a 2 ND
<8 fo - oo

If you'll lis-ten a while,

Ill sing you a song' Of this glo-ri-ousland of the

vi aro enra 220 ES ae eas TT Name Na]
a Soe See ee ee eee eee

ea eee
f66CF 2 SOM. 00 4 And the dif -fer-ence [ll show 'twixt the rich and the poor, In a

fe ee.
cS : h a '<---e--___ a_i y
0 eel i aa | eee a - So eed

If you've plen-ty of stamps you can hold up your
=>

leggiero

JIM FISK

REFRAIN cres.

the tri- als for mur-der we have now - a - days, The rich ones get

JIM FISK

If you've thou-sands to pay to the

(lunge) --- eff stentato ~ ritard

- =->

ie:

1 If you'll listen a while, [ll sing you a song
Of this glorious land of the free;
And the difference I'll show 'twixt the rich and the poor,
In a trial by the jury, you'll see.
If you've plenty of stamps, you can hold up your head
And walk from your own prison door,
But they'll hang you up high, if you've no friends or gold,
Let the rich go, but hang up the poor.

Refrain:-In the trials for murder we have nowadays,
The rich ones get off swift and sure;
If you've thousands to pay to the jury and judge,
You may bet they'll go back on the poor.

j
'

JIM FISK

2 T'll sing of a man who's now dead in his grave,
A good man as ever was born;
Jim Fisk he was called and his money he gave
To the outcast, the poor, and forlorn.
We all know he loved both women and wine,
But his heart it was right, I am sure;
Though he lived like a prince in his palace so fine,
Yet he never went back on the poor.

Refrain:-If a man was in trouble, Fisk helped him along,
To drive the grim wolf from the door;
He strove to do right, though he may have done wrong,
But he never went back on the poor.

3 Jim Fisk was a man wore his heart on his sleeve,
No matter what people might say;
And he did all his deeds, both the good and the bad,
In the broad open light of the day.
With his grand six-in-hand, on the beach at Long Branch,
He cut a big dash to be sure;
But Chicago's great fire showed the world that Jim Fisk,
With his wealth, still remembered the poor.

Refrain:-When the telegram came that the homeless that night
Were starving to death slow but sure,
His lightning express manned by noble Jim Fisk
Flew to feed all the hungry and poor.

4: Now what do you think of the trial of Stokes,
Who murdered this friend of the poor?
When such men get free, is there anyone safe
To step outside their own door?
Is there one law for the poor and one for the rich?
It seems so, at least so I say;
If they hang up the poor, why surely the rich
Ought to swing up the very same way.

Refrain:-Don't show any favor to friend or to foe;
The beggar or prince at your door.
The big millionaire you must hang up, also,
But never go back on the poor.
