We present here lines written by Andy Lee, a pen name of W. W. Delaney, as published in
the Delaney Song Book No. 33. Our guess may be that his "Crazy Song to the Air of 'Dixie'"'
was the beginning of the highbrow folk song perpetrated and perpetuated by Sinclair Lewis, George
Sterling and others. The text of it in full is here, so that each individual singer can figure it out for
himself. Some of the logic is on the order of that of the member of Congress who expostulated,
"Mr. Speaker, I smell a rat.. I see him floating in the air. But I will nip him in the bud." Nor
is it in tone above or below that of the orator addressing the House of Commons regarding certain
thieves in high places, saying, "Sir, put these men on an uninhabited island and they would not
be there an hour before they would have their hands in the pockets of the naked savages." . . .
With but slight practice any of the verses will go to the tune of Dixie. And they are nearly as silly
if read instead of sung.

1 Way down South in the land of cotton,
I wrote this song and wrote it rotten;
I did, I didn't-you don't believe me,
The reason why I cannot sing,
I have no chestnuts for to spring,
O, me! Did we? She don't. Why does she?
I just come back from Mobile, I did, I didn't!
I just come back from Mobile,
And I don't care to go anywhere-
I do, I don't. Oh, Lizzie sells the peanuts.

2 I used to live down on a farm,
And one bright night, when the day was warm,
I swiped some cheese from off the table,
The farmer chased me, but the night was damp,
And the farmer got such an awful cramp
In his necktie, in his feet, in his eye, oh, Heinie!
I just come back from Cuba! Hurrah! Hurree!
I just come back from Cuba,
And I don't know which way to go-
I do, I don't, I go out bicycle walking.

3 I like to sit down by the brook,
Take a fishing line and hook,
And fish for clams, for worms and sausages;
And when I see a sign so near
That says: "No fishing goes on here."
I hunt for fleas, for flies and lobsters,
I am an Irish hunter, I am, I ain't,
I am an Irish hunter;
I hunt for beer, but not for deer,
I do, I don't. Now can you know the diffcrence?

4 I once went up in a big balloon
To get some cheese from off the moon;
But the moon was full and I was fuller.
I don't forget I took a drop,
I fell kerflop in a barber shop,
And got a shave-a shampoo-that's all.
Td like to see you after the show-I will-I won't.
I'd like to know which way to go;
For I can't know the wrong direction-
Ido. Idon't. She was bred in old Kentucky
