A fragment of an old ballad lives on in versions of two verses or ten, with many varying accounts

of what happened between the two men and the one woman.

Se
oT

I was a high - born gen-tle-man, She was a high-born la - dy, We

-_-

|
f

fr -o

yo ov
lived in the pal - ace great and tall. Till she met with Gyp-sy Da - vy.

1 I was a high-born gentleman, 2 Last night she slept in a goose-feather bed,
She was a high-born lady. With her arms around her baby.
We lived in a palace great and tall, To-night she lies in the cold, cold ground
Till she met with Gypsy Davy. In the arms of her Gypsy Davy.

A
THE ROVING GAMBLER

Girls with a wild streak, in the farther yesterdays, often lost their hearts to the man in dapper
clothes, with a big gold watch-chain across his vest, and with plenty of money. ("I don't care
where he gets it."") That the man was a stranger in town, that he was a gambler, that he introduced
himself saying, "Come with me, girlie"-were points in favor of his audacity, nerve. Such a
couple, jack and queen, are briefly sketched in this song. The later chapters, whether she had to
take in washing, whether he was converted at a religious revival and set himself up in a respectable
business, we do not know. There is a swing and self-assurance to the tune and words, the swagger
of the old-time minstrel troupe going down Main Street and around the public square, led by the
high-hat drum-major holding aloft a long baton with a golden ball gleaming on the end. In the
mischievous, Yonder Comes My Pretty Little Girl, text B, is an authentic folk song found by
R. W. Gordon on a southern tour. From Delaney's Songbook No. 23, we give the text C, with
repeated lines eliminated, of a piece called The Gamboling Man. This is evidently the popular
song of English origin from which the southern and western minstrel troupes made their verses,
Delaney tells us. We may note, in passing, that while gamblers may gambol and gambolers may
gamble, the English version carries no deck of cards.

Con moto, tranquillo

1 Iam a roving gambler, I've gambled all around,
Wherever I meet with a deck of cards I lie my money down.

2 I've gambled down in Washington and I've gambled over in Spain;
I am on my way to Georgia to knock down my last game.

3 I had not been in Washington many more weeks than three,
Till I fell in love with a pretty little girl and she fell in love with me.
