A biography titled "Life of John Morrissey, the Irish Boy Who Fought His Way to Fame and
Fortune" tells about a prize fighter, gambler, politician who became state senator and Member
of Congress. His big fights were in the 1850's and he defeated Thompson, the Yankee Clipper, the
Benicia boy, in the squared circle, as related in this song. He was a "Paddy" and a ring hero, too,
as related. But sporting authorities consulted on the point fail to find that he ever planted his
knuckles in a Russian sailor's face nor fought any such thirty-eight-round contest as here described.
Yet the song delivers the atmosphere of the old-time bare-fisted ring fight. . . . It is presented
here as sung by M. C. Dean, of Virginia, Minnesota, author of "The Flying Cloud," a collection of
lumberjack and Great Lakes songs and American ballads. On the currency of this and similar
ballads Franz Rickaby wrote this eloquent and informative note: "In the logging camp the hegem-
ony in song belonged to the Irish. Although the Scotch and French-Canadian occur occasionally,
the Irish were dominant, and the Irish street-song was the pattern upon which a liberal portion of
the shanty-songs were made. Irishmen sailed the seas of the world. In the armies of England
they fought against Russia and died on the fields of Indian insurrection. In Canada and the
United States, whither they migrated in hordes, they fought wherever there was fighting. And in
this New World those of them who were thrifty and provident laid foundations of homes; and those
who were not, didn't. But whatever they did, they made and sang songs; and wherever they went
roving, they took them along. Thus it was that the shanties rang with songs of ships and piracy,
of American battle charges, and of prize-fights in far-lying ports of the world; of charging the heights
of Alma, of dying in India for Britannia and Britannia's Queen, and of sailing the lakes with red
iron ore-of all these, as well as of harvesting the mighty pine."

Ne@ Sa SSE EE TTS
5 DY ES | Seay Sl
eS Sa ea Es Eee ee

CAE © TD ana EE" EEE BSF
-oe

Come all yousons of E - rin, at-ten-tionnow I crave, WhileI re - late the

prais-es of an I -rish he - ro brave, Con-cern-ing a_ great fight, me boys, all

1 Come all you sons of Erin, attention now I crave,
While I relate the praises of an Irish hero brave,
Concerning a great fight, me boys, all on the other day,
Between a Russian sailor and bold Jack Morrissey.

2 It was in Terra del Fuego, in South America,
The Russian challenged Morrissey and unto him did say
"T hear you are a fighting man, and wear a belt I see.
What do you say, will you consent to have a round with me?"

3 Then up spoke bold Jack Morrissey, with a heart so stout and true,
Saying, "I am a gallant Irishman that never was subdued.
Oh, I can whale a Yankee, a Saxon bull or bear,
And in honor of old Paddy's land I'll still those laurels wear.

co

These words enraged the Russian upon that foreign land,

To think that he would be put down by any Irishman.

He says, "You are too light for me. On that make no mistake.
I would have you to resign the belt, or else your life I'll take."

5 To fight upon the tenth of June these heroes did agree,
And thousands came from every part the battle for to see.
The English and the Russians, their hearts were filled with glee;
They swore the Russian sailor boy would kill bold Morrissey.

fon)

They both stripped off, stepped in the ring, most glorious to be seen,
And Morrissey put on the belt bound round with shamrocks green.
Full twenty thousand dollars, as you may plainly see,

That was to be the champion's prize that gained the victory.

They both shook hands, walked round the ring, commencing then to fight.
It filled each Irish heart with joy for to behold the sight.

The Russian he floored Morrissey up to the eleventh round,

With English, Russian, and Saxon cheers the valley did resound.

8 A minute and a half our hero lay before he could rise.
The word went all around the field: "'He's dead," were all their cries.
But Morrissey raised manfully, and raising from the ground,
From that until the twentieth the Russian he put down.

©

Up to the thirty-seventh round 'twas fall and fall about,
Which made the burly sailor to keep a sharp lookout.

The Russian called his second and asked for a glass of wine.
Our Irish hero smiled and said, "The battle will be mine."

10 The thirty-eighth decided all. The Russian felt the smart
When Morrissey, with a fearful blow, he struck him o'er the heart.
A doctor he was called on to open up a vein.
He said it was quite useless, he would never fight again.

11 Our hero conquered Thompson, the Yankee Clipper too;
The Benicia boy and Shepherd he nobly did subdue.
So let us fill a flowing bowl and drink a health galore
T brave Jack Morrissey and Paddies evermore.
