DIS MORNIN', DIS EVENIN', SO SOON
OH, BURY ME NOT ON THE LONE PRAIRIE
CARELESS LOVE

THE JOHN B. SAILS

JOHN HENRY

MIDNIGHT SPECIAL .

ALICE B.

PO' BOY

HARMONIZATION BY
Leo Sowerby
Hazel Felman
Henry Francis Parks
Hazel Felman
Henry Joslyn
Henry Joslyn
Hazel Felman
Hazel Felman ;
Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .
Thorvald Otterstrém
Henry Joslyn ;
Alfred G. Wathall .
Lillian Rosedale Goodman

The world grows more majestic but man diminishes. Why is this?-We carry within us greater
things than the Greeks, but we ourselves are smaller. It is a strange result. . . . The whole secret
of remaining young in spite of years, and even of gray hairs, is to cherish enthusiasm in one's self
by poetry, by contemplation, by charity. . . . The modern haunters of Parnassus carve urns of
agate and of onyx; but inside the urns what is there? Ashes. Their work lacks feeling, seriousness,
sincerity, and pathos-in a word, soul and moral life. I cannot bring myself to sympathize with
such a way of understanding poetry. The talent shown is astonishing, but stuff and matter are
wanting. It is an effort of the imagination to stand alone-a substitute for everything else. We
find metaphors, rhymes, music, color, but not man, not humanity. Poetry of this factitious kind
may beguile one at twenty, but what can one make of it at fifty? It reminds me of Pergamos,
Alexandria, of all the epochs of decadence when beauty of form hid poverty of thought and exhaus-
tion of feeling. I strongly share the repugnance which this poetical school arouses in simple people.
It is as though it only cared to please the world-worn, the over-subtle, the corrupted, while it ignores
all normal healthy life, virtuous habits, pure affections, steady labor, honesty, and duty. It is
an affectation, and because it is an affectation the school is struck with sterility. The reader desires
in the poet something better than a juggler in rhyme, or a conjurer in verse; he looks to find in
him a painter of life, a being who thinks, loves, and has a conscience, who feels passion and repent-
ance, FREDERICK AMIEL.

HE'S GONE AWAY

This is an arrangement from a song heard by Charles Rockwood of Geneva, Illinois, during
a two-year residence in a mountain valley of North Carolina. It stages its own little drama and
characters. The mountain called Yandro was the high one of this valley. A "'desrick," Mr.
Rockwood was told, is a word for our shack or shanty. The song is of British origin, marked with
mountaineer and southern negro influences. Other mountain places in the southern states have
their song about going away ten thousand miles; this one weaves in the exceptional theme of the
white doves flying from bough to bough and mating, "so why not me with mine?" Mr. Sowerby
was lighted with a rich enthusiasm about this song and has met its shaded tones with an accom-
paniment that travels in fine companionship with the singer.

Not too slow and not too strict Arr. L. S.
Fe A ee : o_o --_ ae
Kp /--____-_ -++-_# -_-#- eee = cas oe o#

I'm goin' a-way for tostay a lit-tlewhile, ButI'mcomin'back if I go

'a
(ss "= a. ot. $ &
<= a Pr Eat Sal t o -_

tenthou-sand miles. . Oh, who will tie your shoes? And who will glove your

HE'S GONE AWAY

pap - py'll tie

you will kiss my ru-by lips when you come

stay a lit - tle while;

But he'scom-in' back if he goes tenthou-sand miles. Looka - way,

-se- -- ae - ---T a
eG aS : sooer Sr be aeaes
aa a p
eee ee See ee
TEE

ae, toes
es
4 Se

HE'S GONE AWAY

oh, he's gone a-way For to stay a lit - tle

) =the

SO
ee = =

HE'S GONE AWAY

But he's com-in' back if he goes tenthou-sand miles. . Ti 20

eS | bo ls le a
2 a ET le Ss --
(ey ee ee = fe |

build me a_ des-rick on Yan-dro's high hill, Where the wild beasts won't bother me
EET TT

norhear my sad cry; For he's gone, he'sgone a-way for to stay a lit- tle

while, But he's com-in' back if he goes ten thou-sand miles.

HE'S GONE AWAY

I'm goin' away for to stay a little while,

But I'm comin' back if I go ten thousand miles.
Oh, who will tie your shoes?

And who will glove your hands?

And who will kiss your ruby lips when I am gone?

Oh, it's pappy'll tie my shoes,
And mammy'Il glove my hands,
And you will kiss my ruby lips when you come back!

Oh, he's gone, he's gone away,
For to stay a little while;
But he's comin' back if he goes ten thousand miles.

Look away, look away, look away over Yandro,

On Yandro's high hill, where them white doves are flyin'
From bough to bough and a-matin' with their mates,

So why not me with mine?

For he's gone, oh he's gone away
For to stay a little while,
But he's comin' back if he goes ten thousand miles.

I'll go build me a desrick on Yandro's high hill,

Where the wild beasts won't bother me nor hear my sad cry;
For he's gone, he's gone away for to stay a little while,

But he's comin' back if he goes ten thousand miles.

BOLL WEEVIL SONG

A boll weevil couple, arriving in a cotton field in the springtime, will have, by the end of summer,
more than twelve million descendants to carry on the family traditions. So it is estimated. They
are a species of creatures among whom there is no talk at all about " the first families." The billion
dollar devastations of this little eater of cotton crops are of America's traditions of tragedy. J.
Russell Smith, the geographer, says the economic loss caused by the boll weevil equals in amount
that of the four year war in the 'sixties. John Lomax first sang this for the present writer, and of
four different airs and sets of words the Lomax version is the most important; the other boll weevil
songs are worth printing, however, for artistic and scientific purposes. I have known this song
for eight years, since the year John Lomax and his family lived in Indian Hill, Illinois, and it never
loses its strange overtones, with its smiling commentary on the bug that baffles the wit of man, with
its whimsical point that while the boll weevil can make a home anywhere the negro, son of man,
hath not where to lay his head, and with its intimation, perhaps, that in our mortal life neither the
individual human creature, nor the big human family shall ever find a lasting home on the earth.
Elements, weather, crop gambling, fate, Lady Luck, flit in the backgrounds. It is a paradoxical
blend of moods: quickstep and dirge, hilarious defiance and bowed resignation.

Lively with overtones of pathos

Arr. H. F.
ape « == SS

oe =e

Oh,de boll wee-vilam a _lit-tle black bug,Come from Mex-i- co, dey say, Come

all de way to Tex-as jus' a-look-in' foh a place to stay, Jus' a-look-in' foh a

es Sa ---- x +
j os J cs
be tee bs pe oo s bs

--- - -- ----_

BOLL WEEVIL SONG
Last ending

SS 5 SSS

home,. . . . jus' a-look-in' foh a home.

1 Oh, de boll weevil am a little black bug,
Come from Mexico, dey say,
Come all de way to Texas, jus' a-lookin' foh a place to stay,
Jus' a-lookin' foh a home, jus' a-lookin' foh a home.

2 De first time I seen de boll weevil,
He was a-settin' on de square.
De next time I seen de boll weevil, he had all of his family dere.
Jus' a-lookin' foh a home, jus' a-lookin' foh a home.

3 De farmer say to de weevil:
"What make yo' head so red?"
De weevil say to de farmer, " It's a wondah I ain't dead,
A-lookin' foh a home, jus' a-lookin' foh a home."

4 De farmer take de boll weevil,
An' he put him in de hot san'.
De weevil say: " Dis is mighty hot, but I'll stan' it like a man,
Dis'll be my home, it'll be my home."

5 De farmer take de boll weevil,
An' he put him in a lump of ice;
De boll weevil say to de farmer: " Dis is mighty cool and nice,
It'll be my home, dis'll be my home."

6 De farmer take de boll weevil,
An' he put him in de fire.
De boll weevil say to de farmer: '' Here I are, here I are,
Dis'll be my home, dis'll be my home."

BOLL WEEVIL SONG

Y De boll weevil say to de farmer:
"You better leave me alone;
I done eat all yo' cotton, now I'm goin' to start on yo' corn,
I'll have a home, I'll have a home."

8 De merchant got half de cotton,
De boll weevil got de res'.
Didn't leave de farmer's wife but one old cotton dress,
An' it's full of holes, it's full of holes.

9 De farmer say to de merchant:
* We's in an awful fix;
De boll weevil et all de cotton up an' lef' us only sticks,
We's got no home, we's got no home."

10 De farmer say to de merchant:
"We ain't made but only one bale,
And befoh we'll give yo' dat one we'll fight and go to jail,
We'll have a home, we'll have a home."

11 De cap'n say to de missus:
"What d' you t'ink o' dat?
De boll weevil done make a nes' in my bes' Sunday hat,
Goin' to have a home, goin' to have a home."

12 An' if anybody should ax you
Who it was dat make dis song,
Jus' tell 'em 'twas a big buck niggah wid a paih o' blue duckin's on
Ain' got no home, ain' got no home.

MOANISH LADY!

This offshoot of the spiritual, "'Mourner, You Shall be Free," has been widely known for many
years among barber shop harmonizers. 'The other stanzas of the barber shop version, however,
are so lackadaisical that they don't do justice to the stately cadence of that solemn promise that
when the good Lord shall call you home you shall be free. Any one requiring foolish verses for this
air can easily improvise as silly ones as have been left out here. The music is too superbly serious
to have cheap lines.

Arr. H. F. P.

Evangelically

os 2__* -

a
a

! =e ee
CO- @ a E
e

Lord's com-mand.Moanish

Could moan at the

"NN lon
mais - A an SE es ee ee
wy, ey fy a 2 z i
ce a-o--- i H AO ------ raed eek Se Oo- @ eee 1

-o
free,Moanish hon-ey, andyou shall be free When the good Lord shall call you home.

7 | Sees
a eae | fa ae
Cy -4- f4-S

zs

I RIDE AN OLD PAINT

This arrangement is from a song made known by Margaret Larkin of Las Vegas, New Mexico,
who intones her own poems or sings cowboy and Mexican songs to a skilled guitar strumming,
and by Linn Riggs, poet and playwright, of Oklahoma in particular and the Southwest in general.
The song came to them at Santa Fe from a buckaroo who was last heard of as heading for the Border
with friends in both Tucson and El Paso. The song smells of saddle leather, sketches ponies and
landscapes, and varies in theme from a realistic presentation of the drab Bill Jones and his violent
wife to an ethereal prayer and a cry of phantom tone. There is rich poetry in the image of the
rider so loving a horse he begs when he dies his bones shall be tied to his horse and the two of them
sen. wandering with their faces turned west.

Arr. H. F.

eee -- = ae x --_----
ee eons se e-.

<=
I ride an old Paint, I lead an old Dan, I'm goin' to Mon-tan' for to

2 SSS eee Se

throw thehool -i- an. They feed in the cou-lees, they wa-ter in the draw, Their

I RIDE AN OLD PAINT

SSS SS

round themslow, For the fier - y and _ snuf - fy. are a - rar - in' to

| 1 I ride an old Paint, I lead an old Dan,

I'm goin' to Montan' for to throw the hoolian.
They feed in the coulees, they water in the draw,
Their tails are all matted, their backs are all raw.

Ride around, little dogies,
Ride around them slow,
For the fiery and snuffy are a-rarin' to go.

2 Old Bill Jones had two daughters and a song,
One went to Denver and the other went wrong.
His wife she died in a poolroom fight,

Still he sings from mornin' till night.

Ride around, little dogies,
Ride around them slow,
For the fiery and snuffy are a-rarin' to go.

i 3 Oh, when I die, take my saddle from the wall,

Put it on my pony, lead him out of his stall.

Tie my bones to his back, turn our faces to the West,
And we'll ride the prairie that we love the best.

Ride around, little dogies,
Ride around them slow,
For the fiery and snuffy are a-rarin' to go.

FOGGY, FOGGY DEW

This arrangement is from a song rather widely known, which I heard first from Arthur
Sutherland and his bold buccaneers at the Eclectic Club of Wesleyan University. A middle verse
is censored from this version as being out of key and probably an interpolation. At least, it is what
they call apocryphal and of the twilight zone. Observers as diverse as Sinclair Lewis, Sherwood
Anderson, Arthur T. Vance and D. W. Griffith say this song is a great condensed novel of real life.
After hearing it sung with a guitar at Schlogl's one evening in Chicago, D. W. Griffith telegraphed
two days later from New York to Lloyd Lewis in Chicago, "Send verses Foggy Dew stop tune
haunts me but am not sure of words stop please do this as I am haunted by the song."

(= 78) Arr. H. J.

Fast, swinging

1. When I was a bach'-lor, I liv'd by my-self, I

(j= 78)

Gere = -- aie: --

ee
ee ee ee Oe

did thatwaswrong Was to woo a fair young maid. I woo'd her in the

win - ter

time And in

FOGGY, FOGGY DEW

thesum-mer, too; . And the on- ly, on-lything I

did that waswrong Was to keep her from the fog - gy, fog- gy dew. . 2. Oh,

tAS)

When I was a bach'lor, I lived by myself,

I worked at the weaver's trade;

The only, only thing I did that was wrong
Was to woo a fair young maid.

I wooed her in the winter-time

And in the summer, too;

And the only, only thing I did that was wrong,
Was to keep her from the foggy, foggy dew.

Oh, I am a bach'lor, I live with my son;

We work at the weaver's trade;

And ev'ry single time I look into his eyes

He reminds me of the fair young maid.

He reminds me of the winter-time

And of the summer too;

And the many, many times that I held her in my arms,
Just to keep her from the foggy, foggy dew.

An arrangement of an old-time British piece as made known by Daniel Read and Isadora
Bennett Read of Chicago, Illinois, and Columbia, South Carolina. Its stately diction might be
compared to certain laced ladies and ruffled gentlemen imprisoned in fine porcelain works of Eng-
land a century or two ago. It is a deep heart cry, too profound and prolonged to be called poignant,
yet shaken with memory of passion.

| S-
a Se ee ee ee I ee.
Sa es ane ae 4-5 -_-__--@-e=
re - tum . to me. When Tos-es
< - =

<a = ee eee
-- = ee ee
ee
In win-try SNOW ee
a
Sarre s <= ez == ee
fee a ==
: 8 | 8
Se =a ee SS | Saeed =
|

ee
a ee Cy emery Seas

Then will my love re = turn. . to me. Oh, wail - lie,

SS = Sta

wail - lie, But love is bon - lit - tle while When
er

wax-eth cold, .

When cockle shells turn silver bells,
Then will my love return to me.
When roses blow, in wintry snow,
Then will my love return to me.
Oh, waillie! waillie!

But love is bonnie

A little while when it is new!

But it grows old and waxeth cold,
And fades away like evening dew.
