This is one of the magnificent finds of John Lomax for American folk song lore. It is the frame-
work of a big, sweeping novel of real life, condensed into a few telling stanzas. It is of the years
when outfits of men went onto the Great Plains and killed buffalo for the hides. The carcasses were
skinned by thousands and left on the open prairies for the crows and buzzards to pick to the bone.
We may hunt for a harder sardonic than that of Crego telling the men they had been "extravagant"
and were in debt to him. They killed him; it is told as casually and as frankly as the doing of the
bloody deed and their immediate forgetfulness about it except as one of many passing difficulties of
that summer. Lomax speaks of this piece as having in its language a "Homeric quality." Its
words are blunt, direct, odorous, plain and made-to-hand, having the sound to some American ears
that the Greek language of Homer had for the Greeks of that time.

Arr. C. F. E.
SS ee
Jee SS SS

"Twas in thetown of Jacks-bo-ro in thespringof seven-ty- three, A

Fee

the name of Cre- go. . came step-ping up to me, Say - ing,

and how would you like to go . And

the range of the buf - fa - lo?"

1 'Twas in the town of Jacksboro in the spring of seventy-three,
A man by the name of Crego came stepping up to me,
Saying, "How do you do, young fellow, and how would you like to go
And spend one summer pleasantly on the range of the buffalo?"

2 "It's me being out of employment," this to Crego I did say,
"This going out on the buffalo range depends upon the pay.
But if you will pay good wages and transportation too,

I think, sir, I will go with you to the range of the buffalo."

3 "Yes, I will pay good wages, give transportation too,
Provided you will go with me and stay the summer through;
But if you should grow homesick, come back to Jacksboro,

I won't pay transportation from the range of the buffalo."

It's now our outfit was complete - seven able-bodied men,
With navy six and needle gun - our troubles did begin;
Our way it was a pleasant one, the route we had to go,
Until we crossed Pease River on the range of the buffalo.

It's now we've crossed Pease River, our troubles have begun.
The first damned tail I went to rip, Christ! how I cut my thumb!
While skinning the damned old stinkers our lives wasn't a show,
For the Indians watched to pick us off while skinning the buffalo.

He fed us on such sorry chuck I wished myself 'most dead,

It was old jerked beef, croton coffee, and sour bread.

Pease River's as salty as hell fire, the water I could never go -
O God! I wished I had never come to the range of the buffalo.

Our meat it was buffalo hump and iron wedge bread,

And all we had to sleep on was a buffalo robe for a bed;

The fleas and gray-backs worked on us, O boys, it was not slow,

Tl tell you there's no worse hell on earth than the range of the buffalo.

Our hearts were cased with buffalo hocks, our souls were cased with steel,
And the hardships of that summer would nearly make us reel.

While skinning the damned old stinkers our lives they had no show

For the Indians waited to pick us off on the hills of Mexico.

The season being near over, old Crego he did say

The crowd had been extravagant, was in debt to him that day,
We coaxed him and we begged him and still it was no go -
We left old Crego's bones to bleach on the range of the buffalo.

Oh, it's now we've crossed Pease River and homeward we are bound,
No more in that hell-fired country shall ever we be found.

Go home to our wives and sweethearts, tell others not to go,

For God's forsaken the buffalo range and the damned old buffalo.
