What is a pioneer? An American poet answered, "A pioneer is a beginner." It was a child-
like answer. The pioneers in any country are those who make its beginnings. They begin the
trails that later become roads. They stake out land claims, put in crops and start farming. An
inscription chiseled on the state capitol building of Nebraska reads, "'Honour to pioneers who broke
sod that men to come might live." They were strugglers, those who went out on the Great Plains
to make homes. They took weeks for the wagon trip west as '""movers." Or they rode on "'Home-
seekers' Excursion Trains," eating from lunch baskets, sleeping on the seats of railroad cars two,
three, four nights. Once located on the quarter-section claim, which would be their own land and
home if they stayed a few years and farmed it, there was strife and struggle. To get food and clothes,
to keep a shelter going that would shut out rain and snow, to outwit the grasshoppers that came to
eat crops, to live through bad cooking, blizzards and vermin, was a steady round of strife and
struggle. "'There's nothing will make a man hard and profane like starving to death on a govern-
ment claim," we are told in this song. They hada saying, ''The worse things are the better they
are." Sometimes the battle wore them down; it was too much. With "nothing to lose and noth-
ing to gain," they quit as this bachelor, Frank Bolar, did. '"'They moved to new parts," was com-
mon talk as to neighbors. Or, "they vamoosed, skedaddled."' The text here is from Edwin Ford
Piper, whose poems of "barbed wire" cover that Iowa and Nebraska territory where cattle used to
have free range. There were no fences; then came barbed wire. "'My people always sang Lane
County Bachelor to the Irish Washerwoman,"' says Piper. It is a document in jig time.

------ er = {Sf
SSS Se eee

se name is Frank Bo - Jar 'nole_ bach - 'lor I am, Tm
My house _-C iit is built of the na - tion - al soil, The

G aw -@ apie wane Seer pea =

keep -in' ole bach on an_ el - e- gant plan. You'll find me out West in the
walls are e-rect- ed ac-cord-ing to Hoyle, The roof has no pitch but is

= Se = =
SS SaS=- C - w pata = -

Coun-ty of Lane, . . Starv-ing to death on a _ gov -ern-mentclaim;
lev - el and plain And I al- ways get wet when it hap-pens to rain.
a. 2 w-

: REPPALe- = o e e rom secon > iecmoel eos faa! js
c--- E =o -s > eran 4 ---

But hur- rah for Lane Coun - ty, the land _ of the free, The

ee Se - --

fg = SES Spee
--- -- = Se
home of the grass-hop-per, bed-bug, and flea, J'll sing loud her prais-es and

!

-_____@____@ ________@ _@
SS : =

Seas
boast of her fame While starv-ing to death on my _ gov - ern- ment claim.

1 My name is Frank Bolar, 'nole bachelor I am,
I'm keepin' ole bach on an elegant plan.
You'll find me out West in the County of Lane
Starving to death on a government claim;
My house it is built of the national soil,
The walls are erected according to Hoyle,
The roof has no pitch but is level and plain
And I always get wet when it happens to rain.

Refrain:

But hurrah for Lane County, the land of the free,
The home of the grasshopper, bedbug, and flea,
T'll sing loud her praises and boast of her fame
While starving to death on my government claim.

2 My clothes they are ragged, my language is rough,
My head is case-hardened, both solid and tough;
The dough it is scattered all over the room
And the floor would get scared at the sight of a broom;
My dishes are dirty and some in the bed
Covered with sorghum and government bread;
But I have a good time, and live at my ease
On common sop-sorghum, old bacon and grease.

Refrain:

But hurrah for Lane County, the land of the West,
Where the farmers and laborers are always at rest,
Where you've nothing to do but sweetly remain,
And starve like a man on your government claim.

3 How happy am I when I crawl into bed,
And a rattlesnake rattles his tail at my head,
And the gay little centipede, void of all fear
Crawls over my pillow and into my ear,
And the nice little bedbug so cheerful and bright,
Keeps me a-scratching full half of the night,
And the gay little flea with toes sharp as a tack
Plays "Why don't you catch me?" all over my back.

Refrain:

But hurrah for Lane County, where blizzards arise,
Where the winds never cease and the flea never dies,
Where the sun is so hot if in it you remain

Twill burn you quite black on your government claim.

4 How happy am I on my government claim,
Where I've nothing to lose and nothing to gain,
Nothing to eat and nothing to wear,
Nothing from nothing is honest and square.
But here I am stuck, and here I must stay,
My money's all gone and I can't get away;
There's nothing will make a man hard and profane
Like starving to death on a government claim.

Refrain:

Then come to Lane County, there's room for you all,
Where the winds never cease and the rains never fall,
Come join in the chorus and boast of her fame,
While starving to death on your government claim.

5 Now don't get discouraged, ye poor hungry men,
We're all here as free as a pig in a pen;
Just stick to your homestead and battle your fleas,
And pray to your Maker to send you a breeze.
Now a word to claim-holders who are bound for to stay:
You may chew your hard-tack till you're toothless and gray,
But as for me, Ill no longer remain
And starve like a dog on my government claim.

Refrain:

Farewell to Lar County, farewell to the West,
T'll travel back East to the girl I love best;

I'll stop in Missouri and get me a wife,

And live on corn dodgers the rest of my life.

KENTUCKY BLAZING STAR

SOURWOOD MOUNTAIN
