The little drama presented here is as somber with groaning shadows as certain scenes from the
plays of Shakespeare or those chapters in the Bible dealing with Samson and Delilah or the woman
known as Jezebel. Sung deliberately and with understanding of its implications, delivered as a
series of character roles and situations having contrast, it has the pride of an ancient tapestry, with
gashes of knife thrusts and splotches of red that are on second look found to be dry blood. We are
indebted for this text to Reed Smith of the University of South Carolina and his original work in
"The Traditional Ballad and Its South Carolina Survivals,"' published by the Extension Division
of the University of South Carolina. The ballad is hoary, of many variants, sometimes called
"Young Hunting," known in America usually as "Lord Henry," "Love Henry," or "Loving Henry."
_ This specimen of "The Old Scotch Well," or "Little Scotch-ee," is from Miss Tressie Pierce of Co-
lumbia, South Carolina, who learned it in Alexander County, North Carolina.

5 ace

1. "Light, light, light, my lit - tle Seaton ee, And stay all night with
2. "I can- not light, and I will not light, And stay all night with

I have a_ bed of the ver-y, ver-y hast? lll give it up to
thee; Forthere's a_ girl in the old Scotch Yard, Thisnight a- wait -ing for
[2&7 ver 7 [1&7 verses TR ROT RS we FORA EG 16 £58 verses

or SSE
iZ2== 2 ee eee = Ss oe = eS]
thee, Tll give it up to Thecus
me, . This night a-wait-ing for me."

1 "Light, light, light, my little Scotch-ee,
And stay all night with me;
I have a bed of the very, very best,
I'll give it up to thee,
T'll give it up to thee."

2 "T cannot light, and I will not light,
And stay all night with thee;
For there's a girl in the old Scotch Yard,
This night a-waiting for me,
This night a-waiting for me."

3 "You cannot light, and you will not light,
But from me you'll never part;"
She took a pen-knife from her side,
And pierced him in the heart,
And pierced him in the heart.

4 She called unto her little lady miss,
"Come unto me I say;
For there's a dead man in my bed,
Come carry him away,
Come carry him away."

5 She called unto her little lady miss,
"Count the hours, one, two, three;
Are the chickens a-crowing for the middle of the night.
Or are they a-crowing for day,
Or are they a-crowing for day?"

6 Some took him by the lily-white hand,
Some took him by the feet,
And threw him into a new-dug well,
Some forty feet deep,
Some forty feet deep.

7 "Light, light, light, my little birdie,
And settle on my knee;
I have a cage of the very, very best,
T''ll give it up to thee,
I'll give it up to thee."

8 "I cannot light, and I will not light,
And settle on your knee;
For I'm afraid you will sarve me like you sarved
Your little Scotch-ee,
Your little Scotch-ee."
