It's four long years since I reached this land,
In search of gold among the rocks and sand;
And yet I'm poor when the truth is told,
I'm a lousy miner,

I'm a lousy miner in search of shining gold.

My sweetheart vowed she'd wait for me

Till I returned; but don't you see

She's married now, sure, so I am told,

Left her lousy miner,

Left her lousy miner, in search of shining gold.

Oh, land of gold, you did me deceive,

And I intend in thee my bones to leave;

So farewell, home, now my friends grow cold,
I'm a lousy miner,

I'm a lousy miner in search of shining gold.

The verses from a song of California known as The Lousy Miner go to the tune of an older piece
The Dark-Eyed Sailor. In Put's Original California Songster, we find the comic and the bitter.
Many a line has a sting and a bite in it, a cry of the frustrated fool, sitting in the ashes of defeat and
humiliation. There were two ways to reach the goldfields from the Atlantic seaboard or the Missis-
| sippi Valley. One was by ship around Cape Horn, the other across the Great Plains by} covered
wagon. These routes are told of in verses from The Fools of '49 to the tune of Commence, You
Darkies All; they give facts in a half-comic manner that, as the testimony piles up, becomes sardonic.

The poor, the old and rotten scows, were advertised to sail

From New Orleans with passengers, but they must pump and bail;
The ships were crowded more than full, and some hung on behind,
And others dived off from the wharf, and swam till they were blind.

Refrain:

Then they thought of what they had been told,
When they started after gold,

That they never in the world would make a pile.

With rusty pork and stinking beef, and rotten, wormy bread,
| And captains, too, that never were up as high as the main-mast head,
| The steerage passengers would rave and swear that they'd paid their passage
And wanted something more to eat besides Bologna sausage.

Then they began to cross the plains with oxen, hollowing "haw"';
And steamers they began to run as far as Panama,

And there for months the people staid that started after gold,
And some returned disgusted with the lies that had been told.

The people died on every route, they sicken'd and died like sheep,

And those at sea, before they were dead, were launched into the deep;

And those that died while crossing the Plains fared not so well as that,

For a hole was dug and they thrown in, along the miserable Platte.

The ups and downs of covered wagon life, mixed with romance and ending in divorce, are told
in one of the favorite songs of California in the 1850's. Sweet Betsy From Pike has the stuff of a
realistic novel. It is droll and don't-care, bleary and leering, as slippery and lackadaisical as some
of the comic characters of Shakespeare, or as trifling as the two murderers who are asked, "How
came you here?" and who answer, "On our legs." It was a good wagon song. Miles of monotonous
scenery would pass to the singing of it. Disappointed prospectors could share their own misery
with Betsy and Ike. The last line of each verse could be repeated, for a change, with the fol de rol
words, "'Tooral lal looral lal, Tooral lal la loo."" It was a good wagon song.

Oh,don't you re -mem-ber sweet Bet - sy from Pike, Whocrossedthe big

ee ee

mount-ains with her lov - er Ike, With two yoke of cati tle, a

large yel - low dog, A tall Shang-hai roost - er, and one_ spot - ted
REFRAIN
ae acer imams Rae ena aki es eens sear ay ats meses. eee seer eden ge Se
(== |
hog; Say -ing good - bye, Pike Coun - ty, Fare-well for a __ while;
We'll . come back a - gain When we've panned out our pile.

1 Oh don't you remember sweet Betsy from Pike,
Who crossed the big mountains with her lover Ike,
With two yoke of cattle, a large yellow dog,
A tall Shanghai rooster, and one spotted hog;

Refrain: ,
Saying goodbye, Pike County,
Farewell for a while;
We'll come back again
When we've panned out our pile.

2 One evening quite early, they camped on the Platte,
*T was near by the road on a green shady flat;
Where Betsy, quite tired, laid down to repose,
While with wonder Ike gazed on his Pike County Rose.
Refrain:

EE

3 They soon reached the desert, where Betsy gave out
And down in the sand she lay rolling about;
While Ike in great tears looked on in surprise,
Saying, "'Betsy get up, you'll get sand in your eyes."
Refrain:

4 Sweet Betsy got up in a great deal of pain,
And declared she'd go back to Pike County again.
Then Ike heaved a sigh and they fondly embraced,
And she traveled along with his arm 'round her waist.
Refrain:

5 The Shanghai ran off and the cattle all died,
The last piece of bacon that morning was fried;
Poor Ike got discouraged, and Betsy got mad,
The dog wagged his tail and looked wonderfully sad.
Refrain:

6 One morning they climbed up a very high hill,
And with wonder looked down into old Placerville;
Ike shouted and said, as he cast his eyes down,
"Sweet Betsy, my darling, we've got to Hangtown."
Refrain:

7 Long Ike and Sweet Betsy attended a dance,
Where Ike wore a pair of his Pike County pants,
Sweet Betsy was covered with ribbons and rings,
Quoth Ike, '"' You're an angel, but where are your wings?"
Refrain:

8 A miner said "Betsy, will you dance with me?"
**T will, old hoss, if you don't make too free;
But don't dance me hard. Do you want to know why?
Dog on ye, I'm chuck full of strong alkali."
Refrain:

9 Long Ike and Sweet Betsy got married, of course,
But Ike getting jealous obtained a divorce;
And Betsy, well satisfied, said with a shout,
"Goodbye, you big lummux, I'm glad you backed out,"

Last Refrain:

Saying goodbye, dear Isaac,
Farewell for a while.

But come back in time
To replenish my pile.
