This tale of love's ironic pathways, as sometimes sung by soldiers, sailors, and travelling men,
carries its main character through farther episodes in other cities. It was a favorite in The Black
Watch and among Canadian and Anzac contingents during the World War. The melody comes
here from Paul Boston, John Lock and Bert Massee of Chicago. The text was fortified in part by

H. L. Mencken and a contributor to The American Mercury.
7 Valse moderato Arr. A. G. W.

Spo Se
es sc rll yo op
It's the syme the whole world o - ver, . . It's the
=-

---EESE
ply - sures. . . Now ain't that a blink - in' shyme? .
=) eebeortiag
--- sf
--- ae ee
eae ae Ben SSS Sessa

1 It's the syme the whole world over,
It's the poor what gets the blyme,
While the rich 'as all the plysures.
Now ain't that a blinkin' shyme?

2 She was a parson's daughter,
Pure, unstyn-ed was her fyme,
Till a country squire come courtin', .
And the poor girl lorst her nyme.

8 So she went aw'y to Lunnon,
Just to 'ide her guilty shyme.
There she met an Army Chaplain:
Ornst ag'yn she lorst her nyme.

4 Ear 'im as he jaws the Tommies,
Warnin' o' the flymes o' 'ell.
With 'er 'ole 'eart she had trusted,
But ag'yn she lorst her nyme.

5 Now 'es in his ridin' britches,
'*Untin' foxes in the chyse
W'ile the wictim o' his folly
Makes her livin' by her wice.

6 So she settled down in Lunnon,
Sinkin' deeper in her shyme,
Till she met a lybor leader,
And ag'yn she lorst 'er nyme.

7 Now 'es in the Ouse 0' Commons,
Mykin' laws to put down crime,
Wile the wictim of his plysure
Walks the street each night in shyme.

8 Then there cyme a bloated bishop.
Marriage was the tyle 'e tole.
There was no one else to tyke 'er,
So she sold 'er soul for gold.

9 See 'er in 'er 'orse and carriage,
Drivin' d'ily through the park.
Though she's myde a wealthy marriage
Still she ides a brykin' 'eart.

10 In a cottage down in Sussex
Live's 'er payrents old and lyme,
And they drink the wine she sends them,
But they never, never, speaks 'er nyme.

11 In their poor and 'umble dwellin'
There 'er grievin' payrents live,
Drinkin' champyne as she sends 'em
But they never, never, can forgive.

12 It's the syme the whole world over,
It's the poor what gets the blyme,
While the rich 'as all the plysures.
Now ayn't it a bloody shyme?
