NEGRO REEL 4

ONE MORNING IN MAY .

THE TROUBLED SOLDIER
POST-RAIL SONG

HAMMER MAN . i

LOVE SOMEBODY, YES I DO

AIN'T GONNA RAIN

KENTUCKY MOONSHINER

MR. FROG WENT A-COURTING
KIND MISS

GOIN' DOWN TO TOWN

THE SHIP THAT NEVER RETURNED
DOWN IN THE VALLEY . : d
I DREAMED LAST NIGHT OF MY TRUE LOVE
DRIVIN' STEEL .

HARMONIZATION BY
Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .

Henry Francis Paris
Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .

Alfred G. Wathall |
Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .
H enry Francis Dae
Alfred G. Wathall .

Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .

PAGE

When at the University of Kentucky with my talk and recital, I was told of Gilbert Reynolds
Combs, minister of the First Methodist Episcopal Church of Lexington. He came from the moun-
tain people and believes in them as having characters of tragedy and comedy, as having tempera-
ment, speech, song and original minds. His talk about the mountain people and his singing of
their ballads and ditties is quiet and convincing. Born ''on the waters of Cow Creek," he saw
life amid the log cabins on the ridges of Pine Mountain and the streams named Troublesome, Cut-
shin, Hell-fer-Sartain and Kingdom Come. His forefathers for three generations were natives of
"Bloody Breathitt"' county, tracing back to Scotch-Irish settlers in Virginia before the Revolution.
When Combs came down from the mountains in his sixteenth year, he was to see for the first time
a railroad train, a telephone, typewriter, fountain pen, bath tub, barber chair, and other items
of onrushing civilization. He worked his way through Berea College, was the valedictorian at
Kentucky Wesleyan, took post-graduate studies, won an oratory medal at Vanderbilt University,
at twenty-seven was ordained a minister and in a few years became one of the leaders, at thirty-
six was the pastor of what is regarded as the central and leading church of his Conference. In a
corner of his church study Mr. Combs has a collection of more than 300 mountaineer songs. He
placed at our disposal a number of them appearing in the section called Kentucky Blazing Star,
which is the name of a "kiverlid" design that originated in some cabin alongside a Troublesome
or Kingdom Come Creek.

|

SOURWOOD MOUNTAIN

This tune and text of Sourwood Mountain, which has so many versions, is another from the
collection of Gilbert R. Combs of Lexington, Kentucky. It is as much a dance tune as a song, and
is close to the style of the yodel.

Arr. A. G. W.
J SS SS ---

Chickens a-crow-in' on Sour-wood Mountain,Ho - dee -ing-dong-doo-dle al - lay day,

So man-y pret-ty girls I can'tcount'em, Ho-dee-ing-dong-doo-dle al-lay day.

a ym Pe Aoleg: a
aol === 2 =e
Se
ee
= SS == Se

1 Chickens a-crowin' on Sourwood Mountain, 4 My true love is a blue-eyed daisy,

Ho-dee-ing-dong-doodle allay day, Ho-dee-ing-dong-doodle allay day,
So many pretty girls I can't count 'em, If she don't marry me I'll go crazy,
Ho-dee-ing-dong-doodle allay day. Ho-dee-ing-dong-doodle allay day.
2 My true love, she's a blue-eyed dandy, 5 Back my jenny up the Sourwood Mountain,
Ho-dee-ing-dong-doodle allay day, Ho-dee-ing-dong-doodle allay day,
A kiss from her is sweeter than candy, So many pretty girls I can't count 'em,
Ho-dee-ing-dong-doodle allay day. Ho-dee-ing-dong-doodle allay day.
3 My true love lives over the river, 6 My true love is a sun-burnt daisy,
Ho-dee-ing-dong-doodle allay day, Ho-dee-ing-dong-doodle allay day,
A hop and a skip and I'll be with her, She won't work and I'm too lazy,
Ho-dee-ing-dong-doodle allay day. Ho-dee-ing-dong-doodle allay day.

THE LOVER'S LAMENT

Blendings from five or six old ballads are in this song of parting lovers. "Her lips was like
some musical instrument," and other lines, are extraordinary. The pangs of separation find voice
in an upward sliding wail. It is communicated by Neeta Marquis of Los Angeles, who says it
is too finely sweet a song to be among the lost and forgotten things of melodic art.

Arr. A; GeW.

Andantino

- eee ee iamay aap eae nese a me,
== o= +4 = rar: : ----* . SE fe

My dear-est dear, the time draws near When you and I must

= SF a OS a -- Sas eS Ca
3 =e eas

oe +
ee we ie ~~ Se

But lit-tle do youknow' the grief or woe Of my poortroub- led hee

a eee

a REFRAIN
6s

Oh hush,my love, you will break my heart, Nor let me hear you

mp --

THE LOVER'S LAMENT
lunga

== SS SS eee "ial

For the best of friends will have to part, And so must you and

wee *

cry;

ee Sy ae Me ae
--_-_! ---. colla voce tung is
- a es GSS = ar

(Die Boe >> jb = - ="
| a b-e- --- -
-- espressivo molo™- Fs yr Degen
= |
A
1 My dearest dear, the time draws near 4 Ah, who will shoe your feet, my love,
When you and I must part; And who will glove your hands,
But little do you know the grief or woe And who will kiss your red, rosy lips
Of my poor troubled heart. . When I am gone to the foreign land?
Refrai Refrain:
rain: ;
Oh hush, my love, you will break my heart, My father, he will shoe my feet,
Nor let me hear you cry; My mother will glove my hands,
For the best of friends will have to part, And you may kiss my red, rosy lips,
And so must you and I. When you come from the foreign land.

Refrain:

You are like unto some turtle dove,
That flies from tree to tree,
A-mourning for its own true love
Just as I mourn for thee.

2 As I walked out one clear summer night, 6
A-drinking of sweet wine,
It was then I saw that pretty little girl
That stole this heart of mine.

Refrain: Refrain:
3 Her cheeks was like some pink or rose 7 You are like unto some sailing ship
That blooms in the month of June, That sails the raging main,
Her lips was like some musical instrument, If I prove false to you, my love,
That sung this doleful tune. The raging seas will burn.
Refrain: Refrain:
B
1 I wish your breast was made of glass, 2 Your name in secret I would write,
All in it I might behold; Pray believe in what I say;
Your name in secret I would write You are the man that I love best
In letters of bright gold. Unto my dying day.
Refrain. Refrain.

HELLO, GIRLS

Girls who are thinking about getting married find advice here. The third verse carries a laugh,
with a slight mourning border of sober second thought. Movers from Kentucky, probably, took
the tune to Kansas, and gave it new verses as in text B, the song of Kansas Boys. '"'Puncheon
floor" and '"'milk in the gourd" are clearly Kentucky inventions or importations. Planting corn
in February "with a Texas pony and a grasshopper plow," however, is a farming trick the Ken-
tuckians first heard of after they left '"'the Gascony of America" and took up claims in the Sunflower
state. The verses traveled up into Nebraska districts where they pitch horseshoes and hold cham-
pionship corn-husking contests, for Edwin Ford Piper, who lived on a farm near Auburn, wrote of
Kansas Boys, "This ballad I found in my sister's note book. The older brothers and sisters used
to sing it."

Arr. A. G. W.

See SS ee ae =

Hel-lo girls, lis-ten to my voice, Don't youney-er mar-ry no oe Maeno ne oie are boys.

ooeee, LYS Se cr ae ee

EE 2 se -___s oO
-s SS
mee. TES

---- Se fe
SSS

poco rit. on
ane et ee an oe Rear eee ee ee
@ = SSS ==!

If you do yourdoomshall be Hoe-cake, ho-min-y andsass-a-fras tea

"colle voce

Pere sit sees oth th ieee 2 et
---- =A ee

A
1 Hello girls, listen to my voice,
Don't you never marry no good-for-nothing boys.
If you do your doom shall be
Hoe-cake, hominy, and sassafras tea.

2 Young boys walking down the street,
Young girls think they look mighty sweet.
Hands in their pockets not a dime can they find,
Oh, how tickled, poor girls mine.

3 When a young man falls in love,
First it's honey and then turtle dove.
After he's married no such thing,
"Get up and get my breakfast, you good-for-nothing thing!"

B
KANSAS BOYS

1 Come, all young girls, pay attention to my noise,
Don't fall in love with the Kansas boys,
For if you do your portion it will be,
Johnny cake and antelope is all you'll see.

2 They'll take you out on the jet black hill,
Take you there so much against your will,
Leave you there to perish on the plains,
For that is the way with the Kansas range.'

8 Some live in a cabin with a huge log wall,
Nary a window in it at all,
Sand stone chimney and a puncheon floor,
Clapboard roof and a button door.

4 When they get hungry and go to make bread,
They kindle a fire as high as your head,
Rake around the ashes and in they throw,
The name they give it is "doughboys' dough."

5 When they go to milk they milk in a gourd,
Heave it in the corner and cover with a board,
Some get plenty and some get none,

That is the way with the Kansas run.

6 When they go to meeting the clothes that they wear
Is an old brown coat all picked and bare,
An old white hat more rim than crown,
A pair of cotton socks they wore the week around.

% When they go to farming you needn't be alarmed,
In February they plant their corn,
The way they tend it I'll tell you now,
With a Texas pony and a grasshopper plow.

8 When they go a-fishing they take along a worm,
Put it on the hook just to see it squirm,
The first thing they say when they get a bite
Is "I caught a fish as big as Johnny White."

9 When they go courting they take along a chair,
The first thing they say is, "'Has your daddy killed a bear,"
The second thing they say when they sit down
Is 'Madam, your Johnny cake is baking brown."

RED RIVER VALLEY

The popular song In the Bright Mohawk Valley went through changes in the seaboard and
mountain states of the South. It became The Red River Valley; it went west and became a "cow-
boy love song," the end line speaking of '"'the cowboy that's waiting for you" or "the half breed
that's waiting for you."' The version here is from Gilbert R. Combs as he heard it on Pine Mountain.
Three final stanzas are added from the R. W. Gordon collection. I have heard it sung as if bells
might be calling across a mist in a gloaming.

Arr. H. F. P.

From this val - ley they say yvyou-liarers gor ing,athies « We will
Come and _ sit by my side if seyou love) Me. aa Do not
IT TI
= am - | = see pee
eS ee eee
es ~e ee
------- - - <See
a Sa a eee f- ={
= Cd = < re a
eS --- -
aan son ees) ieee ee emer eee aS
2 --* f = See © f= eS
miss yourbrighteyes and sweet smile, Forthey say you are tak - ing the
has - ten to bid me _ a - dieu, But re-mem - ber the Red Riv - er
SETS Beene Ly
--_ ce [So
oe or ee eee tis ¢. oe -y
. . oe -e&
SS ee Sales ===
ex 6 eee eee -- a =e === ==
+ = eee a Oy
2 ee a ee
0 iy ae 5
sun - shine That bright - ens our path-way a - while.

Val - ley x And the girl that has loved you so true.
~ |

no | -e& 5 a) fn oe =
dt EN ; oe alee oe ees pal :
SS =! - 2 2 z ae =

ie Ss ee ce -ge- lo - oe (oer \e |

RED RIVER VALLEY

1 From this valley they say you are going,
We will miss your bright eyes and sweet smile,

5 I have promised you, darling, that never
Will a word from my lips cause you pain;

For they say you are taking the sunshine
That brightens our pathway awhile.

Refrain:
Come and sit by my side if you love me,
Do not hasten to bid me adieu,
But remember the Red River Valley
And the girl that has loved you so true.

2 For a long time I have been waiting
For those dear words you never would say,

But at last all my fond hopes have vanished,

For they say you are going aawy.
Refrain:

And my life, - it will be yours forever
If you only will love me again.
Refrain:

Must the past with its joys be blighted

By the future of sorrow and pain,

And the vows that was spoken be slighted?
Don't you think you can love me again?
Refrain:

As you go to your home by the ocean,
May you never forget those sweet hours,

* That we spent in Red River Valley,

3 Won't you think of the valley you're leaving? g

Oh how lonely, how sad it will be.

- Oh think of the fond heart you're breaking,

And the grief you are causing me to see?
Refrain:

4 From this valley they say you are going;
When you go, may your darling go too?
Would you leave her behind unprotected
When she loves no other but you?
Refrain:

And the love we exchanged 'mid the flowers.
Refrain:

There never could be such a longing

In the heart of a pure maiden's breast,
That dwells in the heart you are breaking
As I wait in my home in the West.
Refrain:

And the dark maiden's prayer for her lover
To the Spirit that rules over the world;
May his pathway be ever in sunshine,

Is the prayer of the Red River girl.
Refrain:

LIZA JANE

The mountains are friendly and homelike to many who live there. Gilbert R. Combs tells of
men leaving for a year or two of "'ranching it" on the western plains, and then straggling back saying
of the flat prairies and level horizons, "It was too lonesome, too ]-o-n-e-s-o-m-e."" They have their
own ways. Some are told of in these lines from men who are a law unto themselves. There are
as many Liza songs in the Appalachian mountains as there are species of trees on the slopes of that
range. The one in text A is called Liza Jane and the one in text B is known as Mountain Top.

Arr. A. G. W.

the moun-tain top, And plant me a _ patch of

REFRAIN, Se SS
== --- -- : - =
=e ae se a: Fi sgee ae
sweet-en lit - tle, Li = za ae pos Lines, po'... gal,
- >
= 2 So 2 males eee oe
r oa -@- ee Cc -sS-
--
= aaa ----
--- --
5 - :
SS ae == =
sS.. = Ss

LIZA JANE

po' Li- za, po' gal, She died on the train.

A
1 I'll go up on the mountain top, 5 The hardest work that ever I did,
And plant me a patch of cane, Was a-brakin' on the train, *
I'll make me a jug of molasses, The easiest work that ever I did,
| For to sweeten little Liza Jane. Was a-huggin' little Liza Jane.
Refrain:
Refrain:
O po' Liza, po' gal, B
dear a MOUNTAIN TOP
O po' Liza, po' gal, .
She died on the train. 1 Til go up on the mountain top

And grow me a patch of cane,
Tl make me a jug of molasses too,
For to sweeten up Liza Jane.

I'll go up on the mountain top,

Put up my moonshine still,

| I'll make you a quart of old moonshine,
| For just one dollar bill. 2 Come along, sweet Liza Jane,
Refrain: Just come along with me,

We'll go up on the mountain top,
Some pleasures there to see.

3 Head is like a coffee pot,
Nose is like a spout,

Her mouth is like an old fire-place, 3 I'll go up on this mountain top

With the ashes all raked out. Put out me a moonshine still,

Refrain: Tl sell you a quart of old moonshine
Just for a one dollar bill.

4 I went to see my Liza Jane,

She was standing in the door, 4 I will eat when I am hungry

Her shoes and stockings in her hand, And drink when I am dry,

And her feet all over the floor. If a tree don't fall on me

Refrain: I'll live until I die.
