Sometimes it happens that lovely people write verses, lyrics, with inadequate melodies. The
Kentucky mountain song, "Fond Affection," has a tune hardly worth record here but it does
have these striking stanzas.

1 The world's so wide I cannot cross it, 2 I give you back your ring and letters,
The sea's so deep I cannot wade, And the picture I have loved so well,
T'll just go hire me a little boatman, And henceforth we will meet as strangers,
To row me across the stormy tide. But I can never say farewell.

3 There's only three things that I could wish for,
That is my coffin, shroud, and grave,
And when I'm dead please don't weep o'er me,
Or kiss the lips you once betrayed.

A
GO BRING ME BACK MY BLUE-EYED BOY

Here too is a "'sad-like" tune. . . . Andthe words matchthetune. . . . Theseventh
verse is an addition by someone wanting a dash of horse sense to finish off the fatal childish romance.
Text A and the tune are from Frances Ries, and text B, London City, from R. W. Gordon.

=i :
me, Go bring me back the one I love, And hap-py will I ev -er be.

1 Go bring me back my blue-eyed boy, 4 He drew his knife and he cut her down,
Go bring my darling back to me, He drew his knife and he cut her down,
Go bring me back the one I love, He drew his knife and he cut her down,
And happy will I ever be. Upon her breast these words he found.

2 Must I go bound while he goes free? 5 Go dig my grave, go dig it deep,

Must I love a man that don't love me? Go dig my grave, go dig it deep,
Or must I act some childish part, Go dig my grave, go dig it deep,
And die for the one that broke my heart? And plant a rose at my head and feet.

3 Late one night when her father came home, 6 Upon my breast a turtle dove,
Inquiring where his daughter had gone, Upon my breast a turtle dove,

He went upstairs and the lock he broke, Upon my breast a turtle dove,
And found her hanging by a rope. To show this world I died for love.

7 Around my grave go build a fence,
Around my grave go build a fence,
Around my grave go build a fence,
To show this world I had no sense.

B
LONDON CITY
1 London City where I used to dwell, 4 She went off upstairs to fix her bed
It's a railroad boy I loved so well, Not a word to her mamma she said.
He courted me my heart away, Mamma went off upstairs saying
And with me he would not stay. Daughter dear, what is troubling you?
2 Go out this fair little town, 5 Oh, Mamma, Oh, Mamma, I dare to tell
Take him a chair and sit right down, It's the railroad boy I love so well,
Take other strange girls upon his knee, He courted me my heart away
And tell them things he won't tell me. And with me would not stay.
3 I don't see the reason why 6 Her papa came in from his work
Unless they had more golden eyes. Saying where is my daughter so dear,
Gold will melt, silver will fly, Off upstairs he did go
I hope some day they will become as I. And there found her hanging by a rope.

7 Upon her breast was a letter found
Saying, when you find me cut me down-
Go dig my grave both wide and deep
And place a marble stone at my head and feet.
Upon my breast place a turtle dove,
To show this world I died for love.
