The tempo for this song is indicated as "with lucid intervals if possible." It is a highbrow folk
song disbursed in many places where the higher learning is sought. The text is from Red Lewis
of Sauk Center, Minnesota, who got the last verse from George Sterling of San Francisco, and one
or two other verses from an Englishman in Italy returning from a cruise to Bombay. On the
same boat. was a rah-rah boy from Walla Walla, Washington, who asked the Englishman, '' What
is a caterpillar?"' and answering his own riddle, said, "A caterpillar is a worm in a raccoon coat
going for a college education." Also he told the Englishman, "Walla Walla is named twice for the
sake of those who didn't hear the first time."

a | Arr. A. G. W.
SS SS SSS See ES:
IeEed ue aes

Oh, I had a horse and his name was Bill, And when he ran he couldn't stand still, He ran a-

way one day, And al-so I= ran with him.

1 Oh, I had a horse and his name was Bill.
And when he ran he couldn't stand still.
He ran away-one day-

And also I ran with him.

2 He ran so fast he could not stop.
He ran into a barber shop,
And fell exhaustionized-with his eyeteeth-
In the barber's left shoulder.

3 I had a gal and her name was Daisy
And when she sang the cat went crazy
With deliriums-St. Vituses-

And all kinds of cataleptics.

4 One day she sang a song about
A man who turned himself inside out
And jumped-into the river-
He was so very sleepy.

5 I'm going out in the woods next year
And shoot for beer-and not for deer-
I am - [ ain't -
I'm a great sharpshootress.

6 At shooting birds I am a beaut.
There is no bird I cannot shoot
In the eye, in the ear, in the teeth,
In the fin(g)ers.

7 Oh, I went up in a balloon so big,
The people on the earth they looked like a pig,
Like a mice-like a katydid-like flieses-
And like fleasens.

8 The balloon turned up with its bottom side higher.
It fell on the wife of a country squire.
She made a noise like a dog hound, like a steam whistle,
And also like dynamite.

9 Oh, what could you do in a case like that?
Oh, what could you do but stamp on your hat,
And your toothbrush-and everything-
That's helpless.
