One time long ago, it seems, the law came down ona young woman. And she was to be hanged.
And her father came, her mother, her brother, sister, aunt, uncle, cousins. Yet not one would help
her with gold or fee. They all wanted her hanged. Then came her true love and he freed her from
the gallows; he slacked the hangman's rope. So goes the story. We do not know just how many
centuries it has been going. The text and tune here are from the admirable Reed Smith Ballads
published by the University of South Carolina.

= oS ee

nae ae rope, hangs - a-man, Oo slack it for 'g while; I think I see my

se a ie ee

fa-ther com-ing, Rid-ing man-y a mile." "O _ fa-ther,have you brought me gold ?»

ce Se et ee
Or have you aa my fee? Or i you come me hang- a6
ee ee ae
---. ce ee <=

oe = a = = = == 5 a

On the gal-lows tree?" "I havenot brought you gold; I havenot paid yow

a

fee; But I have come to see you hang-ing On the gal-lows tree."

1 "Slack your rope, hangs-a-man, On the gallows-tree?"
O slack it for a while; "T have not brought you gold;
I think I see my father coming, I have not paid your fee;
Riding many a mile." But I have come to see you hanging
"O father, have you brought me gold? On the gallows-tree."'
Or have you paid my fee? (And so on for brother, sister, aunt, uncle,
Or have you come to see me hanging cousin, etc.)

On the gallows-tree?"'

"T have not brought you gold;
I have not paid your fee;

But I have come to see you hanging
On the gallows-tree."

3 "Slack your rope, hangs-a-man,
O slack it for a while;
I think I see my true-love coming
Riding many a mile."'
"O true-love, have you brought me gold?

2 "Slack your rope, hangs-a-man, Or have you paid my fee?
O slack it for a while; Or have you come to see me hanging
I think I see my mother coming, On the gallows-tree?"
Riding many a mile." "Yes, I have brought you gold;
"O mother, have you brought me gold? Yes, I have paid your fee;
Or have you paid my fee? Nor have I come to see you hanging
Or have you come to see me hanging On the gallows-tree.""

FRANKIE AND ALBERT
