A cowboy classic of saddle and trail, ranch and range. The verses are from John Lomax of
Texas and Jay Monaghan of Wyoming. . . . The line "I got a gal, prettiest gal you ever saw,"' is
sometimes sung, "I went to the reservation to see my squaw." Certain versions have extended and
lurid conversations between the cowboy and the lady.

Arr. M. L.
Bravado but not braggadocio

start-ed on the trail on June twen-ty-third, I been punch-in' Tex -as

cat - tle on the Lone Star trail; Sing -in' Ki yi yip - pi yap - pi

yay, yap -pi yay! Sing-in' Ki yi yip-pi yap-pi- y - ay!.

1 I started on the trail on June twenty-third,

I been punchin' Texas cattle on the Lone Star trail;
Singin' Ki yi yippi yappi yay, yappi yay!
Singin' Ki yi yippi yappi yay!

2 It's cloudy in the west, a-lookin' like rain,
And my damned old slicker's in the wagon again;
Singin' Ki yi yippi, ete.
3 My slicker's in the wagon, and I'm gettin' mighty cold,
And these long-horned sons-o'-guns are gettin' hard to hold;
Singin' Ki yi yippi, etc.
4 I'm up in the mornin' before daylight,
And before I sleep the moon shines bright.

5 Oh it's bacon and beans *most every day,
I'd as soon be a-eatin' prairie hay.
6 I went up to the boss to draw my roll,
He had it figgered out I was nine dollars in the hole.

7 [ll drive them cattle to the top of the hill,
I'll kiss that gal, gol darn I will.

8 My seat is in the saddle and my hand is on the horn,
I'm the best dam cowboy ever was born.

9 My hand is on the horn and my seat is in the saddle,

I'm the best dam cowboy that ever punched cattle.

10 My feet are in the stirrups and my rope is on the side,
Show me a hoss that I can't ride.

11 I herded and I hollered and I done very well,
Till the boss said, "Boys, just let 'em go to hell."

12 Stray in the herd and the boss said kill it,
So I shot him in the rump with the handle of the skillet.

13 I went up to the boss and we had a little chat,
I slapped him in the face with my big slouch hat.

14 O the boss says to me, "'I'll fire you,
Not only you, but the whole dam crew."

15 I got a gal, prettiest gal y'u ever saw,

And she lives on the bank of the Deep Cedar Draw.

16 I'll sell my outfit just as soon as I can;
I won't punch cattle for no dam man.

17 Goin' back to town to draw my money,
Goin' back home to see my honey.

18 Well, I'll sell my saddle and I'll buy me a plow
And I'll swear begad, I'll never rope another cow.

19 With my knees in the saddle and my seat in the sky,
Tll quit punching cows in the sweet by and by.

WHOOPEE, TI YI YO, GIT ALONG, LITTLE DOGIES

This widely sung piece also has the smell of saddle leather and long reaches of level prairies in
it. It is plainly of Irish origin, connecting with the lilts and the ballads that begin, ""As I was
a-walking one morning." The word "cholla" is Spanish and is pronounced as if spelled "choya."
The "dogies"' are the little yearling steers.

Arr. C. F. E.

ee

was a-walk-ing one

aa a -
=e

morn-ing for pleas-ure, I saw a cow-punch-er come rid-ing a-lone. His
Es
----
-O- Bad
=s il al
--SS

hat was throwed back andhis spurswas a - jing - atin ri as he Near he was

---- == ae
s 3 F wer ae F
== = | == ae

ot 5; = =e - =} - = :

sing-ing this song: Whoo-pee, ti yi yo, git a - long, lit-tle dog- ies! It's

WHOOPEE, TI YI YO, GIT ALONG, LITTLE DOGIES

_-- SSS SS

your mis-for-tune and none of my own. Whoo-pee, ti 0; git
nn ery -
-
+ F
% ai F
= i

long lit- tle dog -ies, For you know Wy - 0-ming will be your new home!

) === = 5 i = | : = oa Tere =|
a a a ar i or
er

1 As I was a-walking one morning for pleasure,
I saw a cowpuncher come riding alone.
His hat was throwed back and his spurs was a-jingling,
And as he approached he was singing this song:

Refrain:
Whoopee, ti yi yo, git along, little dogies!
It's your misfortune and none of my own.
Whoopee, ti yi yo, git along, little dogies,
For you know Wyoming will be your new home!

2 Early in the spring we round up the dogies,
Mark and brand and bob off their tails,
Round up our horses, load up the chuck wagon,
Then throw the dogies up on the trail:
Whoopee, ti yi yo, git along, little dogies, etc.

8 It's whooping and yelling and driving the dogies;
O how I wish they would go on!
It's whooping and punching and go on little dogies,
For you know Wyoming will be your new home:

| : Whoopee, ti yi yo, git along, little dogies, ete.

WHOOPEE, TI YI YO, GIT ALONG, LITTLE DOGIES

4 When the night comes on we herd them on the bedground,
These little dogies that roll on so slow;
Roll up the herd and cut out the strays,
And roll the little dogies that never rolled before:
Whoopee, ti yi yo, git along, little dogies, etc.

5 Your mother she was raised way down in Texas,
Where the jimson weed and sand burrs grow.
Now we'll fill you up on prickly pear and cholla
Till you are ready for the trail to Idaho:
Whoopee, ti yi yo, git along, little dogies, etc.

6 Oh, you'll be soup for Uncle Sam's Injuns;
It's "beef, heap beef," I hear them cry.
Git along, git along, little dogies,
You're going to be beef steers by and by.
Whoopee, ti yi yo, git along, little dogies, etc.
