An old negro on an Indiana farm near Porter had sung many spirituals and was asked, "Did
you ever make up a song while working with other workers on a job?" He said that near Lynch-
burg, Virginia, when he was young they were cutting down timbers and hauling to a building
under construction, and they made a hundred verses to this tune. . . . In his notable series of
articles in the New York Times on "Folk Songs of America," R. W. Gordon says of work chanteys,
"The solo lines are sung by one man, a !eader or 'foresinger,' and the crowd joins in on the refrain.
The task may be one that calls for a series of heavy pulls on a rope or of successive heaves when
moving a heavy piece of timber. . . . A song often used on the docks is composed out of fragments
loosely strung together. Tomorrow, or at a different task, it will be sung differently. Local allusions
may at any time be introduced, but the tune and the refrain will remain the same. The very
looseness of form in these work chanteys gives the leader a wonderful opportunity for directing
the work without seeming to do so. If he is clever he will take advantage of many facts. To keep
his men working steadily over long periods without feeling fatigue, he will choose a song that seems
endlessly monotonous and count on its hypnotic power. Whenever a specially heavy heave is
needed he will introduce a humorous verse or one that will appeal to the imagination of the men.
Unconsciously, they will shout the refrain louder and at the same time pull harder. A good leader
will always be careful to choose a song fitted to the task, one that has just the proper resting period
in proportion to the frequency and the strength of the required pulls. He will pick a slow rhythm
for continued work, a quick one for a sudden burst of energy." . . . In the following work chantey
the singers took turns improvising solo lines, the group joining in on "Hallelujah, I don't know."

Arr. A. G. W.

Chanted; tempo ad lib.
Zi

1 We are trying to carry this timber to the building.
Hallelujah, I don't know.

2 We will make doors and windows in that building.
Hallelujah, I don't know.

3 We will build it to the glory of the Lord.
Hallelujah, I don't know.

hs

LUMBERJACKS, LOGGERS, SHANTY-BOYS

JAMES WHALAND
