"Tf a man knows any secrets he should die and go to hell with them in him," said Sam Bass
as he lay bleeding from bullet wounds, and Texas Rangers and officers of the law asked him who
were his partners. He and three of his boys, all handy with their six-shooters, on July 20, 1878,
were in Round Rock, Texas, loafing sort of careless in a cigar store next to a bank they had their
eye on to rob. Officers of the law, who had been tipped off by the squealer Murphy, spoke to Sam
and his boys asking who they were, where they came from, how they made their living, and other
questions often asked of strangers by men wearing stars and badges. Shooting began. One officer
dropped dead. So did Seaborn Barnes, "right bower to Sam Bass." Sam got away, was found in
woods near by next day, and died of his wounds on the day after that; it was his 27th birthday
anniversary. In the woods, knowing he couldn't live, he gave Frank Jackson his horse and told
him to make a get-away, though Jackson begged to stay and fight. Like other bandits of legend
and fame Sam Bass was good to the poor. "He would give a poor woman a twenty-dollar gold
piece for a dinner and take no change,"' wrote W. P. Webb in No. 3 of the Texas Folk Lore Society
publications. 'He paid farmers well for the horses he took from them, though sometimes he did
not have time to see the farmer. . . . Sam Bass relics are scattered over the country, everywhere.
His belt with some cartridges in it is in the library of the University of Texas. A carpenter at
Snyder has a horseshoe from Bass's best race horse nailed to the top of his tool chest. Near Belton
are some live oak trees that Bass is said to have shot his initials in while riding at full speed. Horns
of steers supposed to have been killed by Bass sell over the country at fancy prices. In Montague
County, there is a legend of $30,000 of loot buried by Sam Bass. Again, he is supposed to have left
treasure in the Llano country. At McNeill, near Austin, there is a cave in which Sam Bass hid
when he was in retirement. There he kept his horses and from there made his forays". . . . Legend
wrote an epitaph on his monument which is not there: Would That He Were Good as He was Brave.
Near Sam's pretentious monument, mutilated by souvenir collectors, is a rough sandstone memorial
to Seaborn Barnes, with the inscription: He Was Right Bower to Sam Bass. Of this, Webb, a
Texan, commented, "It is written in language Bass would have loved; it has a certain impertinence
to law abiding people in the nearby graves, a certain pride in the leader at whose heels Barnes died.
The spirit of the person who wrote the seven words of that epitaph is the spirit that has created the
legend of Sam Bass in Texas."" And, of course, some such spirit has kept the biographic Sam Bass
ballad alive and going these many years since he met his doom at Round Rock.

Sam Bass was born in In-di-an - a,- it was his na-tive home, And at the age of

sev-en-teen young Sam be- gan to roam. Sam first came out to Tex - as a

1 Sam Bass was born in Indiana, it was his native home,
And at the age of seventeen young Sam began to roam.
Sam first came out to Texas a cowboy for to be,

A kinder-hearted fellow you seldom ever see.

2 Sam used to deal in race stock, one called the Denton mare,
He matched her in scrub races, and took her to the fair,
Sam used to coin the money and spent it just as free,

He always drank good whiskey wherever he might be.

3 Sam left the Collins ranch in the merry month of May
With a herd of Texas cattle the Black Hills for to see,
Sold out in Custer City and then got on a spree,

A harder set of cowboys you seldom ever see.

4 On their way back to Texas they robbed the U. P. train,
And then split up in couples and started out again.
Joe Collins and his partner were overtaken soon,
With all their hard-earned money they had to meet their doom.

5 Sam made it back to Texas all right side up with care;
Rode into the town of Denton with all his friends to share.
Sam's life was short in Texas; three robberies did he do,
He robbed all the passenger, mail, and express cars too.

6 Sam had four companions-four bold and daring lads-
They were Richardson, Jackson, Joe Collins, and Old Dad;
Four more bold and daring cowboys the rangers never knew,
They whipped the Texas rangers and ran the boys in blue.

7 Sam had another companion, called Arkansas for short,
Was shot by a Texas ranger by the name of Thomas Floyd;
O, Tom is a big six-footer and thinks he's mighty fly,

But I can tell you his racket,- he's a deadbeat on the sly.

8 Jim Murphy was arrested, and then released on bail;
He jumped his bond at Tyler and then took the train for Terrell;
But Mayor Jones had posted Jim and that was all a stall,
*T was only a plan to capture Sam before the coming of fall.

9 Sam met his fate at Round Rock, July the twenty-first,
They pierced poor Sam with rifle balls and emptied out his purse.
Poor Sam he is a corpse and six foot under clay,
And Jackson's in the bushes trying to get away.

10 Jim had borrowed Sam's good gold and didn't want to pay,
The only shot he saw was to give poor Sam away.
He sold out Sam and Barnes and left their friends to mourn,-
O what a scorching Jim will get when Gabriel blows his horn.

11 And so he sold out Sam and Barnes and left their friends to mourn,
O what a scorching Jim will get when Gabriel blows his horn.
Perhaps he's got to heaven, there's none of us can say,

But if I'm right in my surmise he's gone the other way.

FIVE WARS

tHE HUNTERS OF KENTUCKY OR HALF HORSE AND HALF
ALLIGATOR
