An old ballad is often like an old silver dagger or an old brass pistol; it is rusty, or greenish;
it is ominous with ancient fates still operating today. Thus with Charlotte, who was worth looking
at, who was very fair, who "laughed like a gypsy queen," we are told. The tarnished tale of her
love and death on a winter night is to be found in the balladry of all the peoples of northern Europe.
As a ballad it was born where nights are bitter cold in the hard winters. It is a puppet play, told
instead of acted, but told in an easy narrative tune. The dramatic players are three: (1) Char-
lottie, the heroine who dies; (2) Charles, who loves her; (3) the ruthless, icy weather. In America
this is among ballads known in all the areas into which the English settlers spread; it is of mountain
and prairie. The text here is from Isadora Bennett Read as heard in an isolated mountain region
of Georgia; the tune is from Dr. James Lattimore Himrod of Chicago, author of "Johnny Apple-
seed,"' who as a boy in southern Indiana heard his mother sing of "the frozen girl."" Here and
elsewhere it may be noted, the mountain people take priveleges with the King's English, especially
in moments of stress and distress. At that "'monoment'' may be a dramatic vocable as good as
"monument."

Andante

gs ea ae ra eee ee eee

Char - lot - tie livd on a moun- fain top in a bleak and lone - ly
And yet, on man -y a _ win - try night, young swains were gath - ered

(a ee a

spot, Therewere no oth -er dwell-ingsthere ex- cept her fa- ther's cot.
there; Her fa- therkept a  so-cialboard and she was ver -y fair. .

1 Charlottie liv'd on a mountain top in a bleak and lonely spot,
There were no other dwellings there except her father's cot.
And yet, on many a wintry night, young swains were gathered there;
Her father kept a social board and she was very fair.

2 On a New Year's Eve as the sun went down, far looked her wishful eye
Out from the frosty window pane as a merry sleigh dashed by.
At a village fifteen miles away was to be a ball that night,
And though the air was piercing cold her heart was warm and light.

3 How brightly gleamed her laughing eye, as a well known voice she heard;
And dashing up to the cottage door her lover's sleigh appeared.
"Oh, daughter dear," her mother cried, "This blanket round you fold,
Tonight is a dreadful one, you'll get your death of cold."

4 "Oh, nay, oh nay!' Charlottie cried, as she laughed like a gypsy queen,
"To ride in blankets muffled up I never would be seen;
My silken cloak is quite enough, you know 'tis lined throughout,
And there's my silken scarf to twine my head and neck about."

5 Her bonnet and her gloves were on, she leaped into the sleigh,
And swiftly they sped down the mountain side and o'er the hills away.
With muffled beat so silently five miles at length were passed,
When Charles with a few and shivering words the silence broke at last.

6 "Such a dreadful night, I never saw, the reins I scarce can hold,"
Charlottie faintly then replied, "I am exceeding cold."
He cracked his whip, he urged his steed much faster than before;
And thus five other weary miles in silence were passed o'er.

7 Said Charles: "How fast the shivering ice is gathering on my brow,"
And Charlott' then more faintly cried, "I'm growing warmer now."
Thus on they rode through frosty air and the glittering cold starlight,
Until at last the village lamps and the ballroom came in sight.

8 They reached the door and Charles sprang out, he reached his hand to her,
"Why set you there like a monoment that has no power to stir?"
He called her once, he called her twice, she answered not a word;
He asked her for her hands again, but still she never stirred.

9 He took her hand in his, - 'twas cold and hard as any stone;
He tore the mantle from her face, the cold stars o'er it shone.
Then quickly to the lighted hall her lifeless form he bore;
Charlottie's eyes had closed for aye, her voice was heard no more.

10 And there he sat down by her side, while bitter tears did flow
And cried, "My own, my charming bride, 'tis you may never know."
He twined his arms around her neck, he kissed her marble brow;
His thoughts flew back to where she said, "I'm growing warmer now."
