TEN THOUSAND MILES AWAY FROM HOME
MY OLD HAMMAH

CHAHCOAL MAN

THE WEAVER

THE COLORADO TRAIL

I MET HER IN THE GARDEN WHERE THE PRATIES GROW

SOMEBODY . : E :
I DON'T WANT TO BE A GAMBLER
WHEN POOR MARY CAME WANDERING HOME

HARMONiZATION BY
Hazel Felman
Hazel Felman
Hazel Felman
Hazel Felman
Alfred G. Wathall .
Marion Lychenherm
Maybelle Stith

Ruth Crawford
Henry Francis Parks
Thorvald Otterstrém
Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .
Alfred G. Wathall .
Elizabeth Marshall

Leo Sowerby

PAGH

Things in a picture must not have the appearance of being brought together by chance or for
@ purpose, but must have a necessary and inevitable connection.

I desire that the creations which I depict should have the air of being dedicated to their situ-
ation, so that one could not imagine that they would dream of being anything else than what they
are. A work of art ought to be all one piece, and the men and things in it should always be there
for a reason.

It were better that the things weakly said should not be said at all, because in the former case
they are only, as it were, deflowered and spoiled.

Beauty does not consist so much in the things represented, as in the need one has of express-
ing them; and this need it is which creates the degree of force with which one acquits oneself of
the work. One may say that everything is. beautiful provided the thing turns up in its own proper
time and in its own place; and contrariwise,.that nothing can be beautiful arriving inappropriately

Let Apollo be Apollo, and Socrates Socrates.

Which is more beautiful, a straight tree or a crooked tree?

Whichever is most in place. :

This then is my conclusion: The beautiful is that which is in place.

JEAN Francois MILuet.

MAN GOIN' ROUN'

At first glance this may seem a whimsical reference to the census taker going from door to
door and taking the names of all people without regard to sex, color, race, or previous condition of
servitude. Then we come to the line, "an' he leave my heart in pain," and we know it is a more
august and austere Enumerator than any employed in the transient and temporal governments
of man. Each verse deals with a relative, mother, father, sister, brother, or other dear one, checked
off from the list of the living. A true instance of the poetry "to be overheard rather than heard,"
it keeps for those of long acquaintance with it, an overtone of a reverie on the riddles of death
and the frail permits by which any one generation walks before the mirrors of life. I heard it in
Columbia, South Carolina, sung for a group including Julia Peterkin, Danny and Isadora Bennett
Read, and Prof. and Mrs. Taylor in whose family Rebecca, the singer, was a servant since a child.
Rebecca was far in years but had a young singing heart and a clear singing voice. She was bashful,
hesitant, at times, about going on with the songs, giving a silvery chuckle with a sidewise turn of
her head as she took up the lines of a new song. 'There were moments when I felt about this homely,
rather slightly built, black woman, the strength of earth and the patience of large, slow-changing
landscapes.

Arr. H. F.

A os [ee StS! - ae =-

There's a man go -in' roun' tak-in' names, There's a man go-in' roun' tak-in' names, An' he

1 There's a man goin' roun' takin' names, 2 There's a man goin' roun' takin' names,

There's a man goin' roun' takin' names, There's a man goin' roun' takin' names,
An' he took my mother' name, An' he took my father' name,

An' he leave my heart in pain, An' he leave my heart in pain,

There's a man goin' roun' takin' names. There's a man goin' roun' takin' names.

3, 4, etc. Sister, brother, etc.

ALL NIGHT LONG

This is the second of a trilogy from Rebecca Taylor. It comes speaking in parables joined
to an air that is stately even though simple.

Am Hk.
Moderately fast
G =a eailacn| fear fe
-- Sy SS ee ee ee
a 3 ST nisin ap y
pov v v

All........ night long. Do, Lawd,_ de - lib- bah DOING lens. comnrre anes
== = ------ a
ae -a=
re a cam . = "nn
ss Besse S -- se]
ce = x ca oO
Ped. *% Ped. *% Ped. «© Ped. %

ALL NIGHT LONG

2 Straight up to heaven, straight right back, . 3 Nebah seen de like since I ben born,

All night long. All night long.

*Tain' but de one train on dis track, People keep comin' an' de train done gone,
All night long. All night long. ;
Tain' but de one train on dis track, People keep comin' an' de train done gone,
All night long. All night long.

Do, Lawd, delibbah po' me! Do, Lawd, delibbah po' me!

ZEK'L WEEP

This is the third number of the majestic trilogy from Rebecca Taylor.

Arr. H. F.
7 ae aaa ioe EES = ae
iepe- Se - ++ --S- 5
L = : {9 - aes est eae Saas ae.
Zek-'1 weep, Zek -'] mo'n, Flesh come a-creep-in' off oo' Zek -'1 bones;
Ee Ee >
--- SO EE a
Ppp - eee) ee SS ----
a ue -o -o°
Church, I know you go'n to miss me WhenlI'm_ gone................. When I'm

ZEK'L WEEP

gone, gone, gone, When I'm gone' to come no mo',

Church, I know you go'n to miss me When I'm _ gone.................

1 Zek'l weep, Zek'] mo'n, 2 Star in the east, star in the west,
Flesh come a-creepin' off 0' Zek'] bones; Wish that star was in my breast,
Church, I know you go'n to miss me Church, I know you go'n to miss me

When I'm gone. When I'm gone.
When I'm gone, gone, gone, . When I'm gone, gone, gone,
When I'm gone to come no mo', When I'm gone to come no mo',
Church, I know you go'n to miss me Church, I know you go'n to miss me
When I'm gone. When I'm gone.

8 Hush, little baby, don' you ery,

Know that yo' mother done born to die,

Chillun, I know you go'n to miss me
When I'm gone.

When I'm gone, gone, gone,

When I'm gone to come no mo',

Chillun, I know you go'n to miss me
When I'm gone.

I KNOW MOONLIGHT

An arrangement of lines from a slave day spiritual.

ro

l-a-y this bod - y UO Wilarvirteteonicnpcee eee eee

1 I know moonlight, 2 I walk in the moonlight,
I know starlight, I walk in the starlight,
I lay this body down. I lay this body down.

3 I go to judgment
In the evenin' of the day,
When I lay this body down.

BLIND MAN LAY BESIDE THE WAY

A brief story . . . compact in diction . . . useless to add or subtract words.

Arr. A. G. W.

Moderato cor con moto

SS

Blind man _ lay be - side the way, He could not _ see the
--- -
ie -_-s<
i ---
<o-°

SS
mp dolce ed espressivo

TONES Ol meet Vctetotaorncraeee The Lord passed by andheardhim say: "O

Lord, won't you help-a me!

BLIND MAN LAY BESIDE THE WAY

2 A man he died, was crucified, 3 A blind man lay by the way and cried,
They hung a thief on either side; "O Lord, won't you help-a me."
One lifted up his voice and cried: And the thief cried out before he died,
"O Lord, won't you help-a me! "O Lord, won't you help-a me!
O Lord, won't you help-a me!" O Lord, won't you help-a me!"
BY'M BY

The stealth and mystery of the coming out of the stars one by one on the night sky ...a
fragment of a spiritual heard in Texas in the early 1880's by Charley Thorpe of Santa Fe.

Arr. M. L.

m by, Stahs  shin-in', Num-bah, num-bah one, Num-bah

two, num-bah three, Good Lawd, by'm by, by'm by, Good Lawd, by'm by.

By'm by, by'm by,

Stahs shinin',

Numbah, numbah one,
Numbah two, numbah three,
Good Lawd, by'm by, by'm by,
Good Lawd, by'm by.

A traditional lullaby in the City of Athens, State of Georgia, as written, words, air, and har-
monization by Maybelle Stith of that city and state. She commented, "In the left hand I tried
to get the effect of a cradle rocking. It was rather difficult to indicate the time as it varies with
the mood of the singer."

Arr. M. S.
ut Moderato ms --_a oe
Mig" po} ap a ee

Go to sleep - y, lit - tle ba - by, 'Fo' de _boo-ger man ketch you.

ae oe -_

a ies. piu animato on
SS ae

When you wake youshallhave a cake, coach and four lit-tle pon - ies.

a ae AES aE
mp atempo, piu animato

o- s-o
oe

a x
A black and a bay, and a dap-ple and a gray.

Go to sleepy, little baby,

Fo' de booger man ketch you.

When you wake you'll have a piece of cake
And a whole lot of little horses.

Go to sleepy, little baby,

*Fo' de booger man ketch you.

When you wake you shall have a cake,
Coach and four little ponies,

A black and a bay, and a dapple and a gray.
Go to sleepy, little baby.

| JUNGLE MAMMY SONG

Margaret Johnson of Augusta, Georgia, heard her mother sing this, year on year, as the mother
had learned it from the singing, year on year, of a negro woman who comforted children with it.
The source of its language may be French, Creole, Cherokee, or mixed. The syllables are easy
for singing; soisthe tune. It may be, as provisionally titled, a Jungle Mammy Song, in the sense
that all mothers are primitive and earthy even though civilized and celestial.

-

Ah yah, tair um bam, boo wah, Kee lay zee day, Nic o lay, mah

----

lun dee. Nic o lay ah poot a way, Nic o lay ah wah mee- Ah

-- = = ee

yah, tair um bam, boo wah, Kee lay zee day, Nic o lav. mah lun dee.
