At Dodge City, Kansas, in the Santa Fe railway station grass and flower plot, stands a plain
memorial, a wooden post painted white with the reminder in black letters: Lest We Forget.
Fastened to the post is an old time, cast-iron Link-and-Pin, the slaughterer, the crepe hanger, the
maker of one-armed men peddling lead pencils on payday night, the predecessor of the beneficent
Safety Coupler. . . . The laughter of the railroad man at death and mutilation runs through many
of his songs. The promise of a wooden kimono, a six foot bungalow, is with him on every trip
whether he's on a regular run or the extra list, and no matter what his seniority. . . . Verses sung
by railroad men were printed in that remarkably American periodical, The Railroad Man's Maga-
zine, under the editorship of Robert Davis. . . . Then came the sheet music version, widely popular.
Lumberjacks, college girls, aviators, and doughboys, have made versions of their own. . . . Songs
are like people, animals, plants. They have genealogies, pedigrees, thoroughbreds, cross-breeds,
mongrels, strays, and often a strange love-child. . . . The Casey Jones song may stem from several
earlier pieces that have the same gait, freckles, disposition, color of hair and eyes. Among such
earlier pieces are Brady Why Didn't You Run?, Jay Gould's Daughter, On The Charlie So Long,
Vanderbilt's Daughter, Mama Have You Heard the News? and all the earlier known songs in which
figure Casey Jones, K. C. Jones, David Jones, and still other Joneses. . . . Two melodies are
presented here. One is the traditional Casey Jones, the other (B) is the lesser known Mama Have
You Heard the News? Some verses of the two songs are as interchangeable as standard box cars;
others are narrow gauge and dinky. The second tune (B) is one notated in Ohio by Josephine
Winston of the University of North Carolina.

Arr. R. E. K.

Come, all you round-ers, for I want you to hear The

sto - ry of a brave en - gi - neer... . Cas - ey Jones... was the

1 By Newton and Seibert, copyright renewed 1938-Shapiro, Bernstein & Co. Inc. proprietors.

SSS ol

round-er's name. On a_ heav-y big eight wheeler of a might - y fame.

SSS eee See a

1 Come all you rounders, for I want you to hear,
The story of a brave engineer.
Casey Jones was the rounder's name.
On a big eight wheeler of a mighty fame.

2 Caller called Casey *bout half-past four,
He kissed his wife at the station door,
Climbed to the cab with the orders in his hand,
He says, "This is my trip to the holy land."

3 Out of South Memphis yard on the fly,
Heard the fireman say, "You got a white eye."
Well, the switchmen knew by the engine moan
That the man at the throttle was Casey Jones.

4 The rain was comin' down five or six weeks.
The railroad track was like the bed of a creek.
They slowed her down to a thirty mile gait
And the south-bound mail was eight hours late.

5 Fireman says, '' Casey, you're runnin' too fast,
You run that block board the last station you passed."
Casey says, "I believe we'll make it though,
For she steams a lot better than I ever know."

6 Casey says, "Fireman, don't you fret,
Keep knockin' at the fire door, don't give up yet,
I'm going to run her till she leaves the rail,
Or make it on time with the south-bound mail."

7 Around the curve and down the dump,
Two locomotives was a bound to jump,
Fireman hollered, "Casey, it's just ahead,
We might jump and make it but we'll all be dead,"

8 Around the curve comes a passenger train,
Casey blows the whistle, tells the fireman, "Ring the bell,"
Fireman jumps and says "Good-by,
Casey Jones, You're bound to die."

9 Well Casey Jones was all right.
He stuck to his duty day and night.
They loved his whistle and his ring number three,
And he came into Memphis on the old I. C.

10 Fireman goes down the depot track,
Begging his honey to take him back,
She says, "Oranges on the table, peaches on the shelf,
You're a goin' to get tired sleepin' by yourself."

11 Mrs. Casey Jones was a sittin' on the bed.
Telegram comes that Casey is dead.
She says, 'Children, go to bed, and hush your cryin',
'Cause you got another papa on the Frisco line."

12 Headaches and heartaches and all kinds of pain.
They ain't apart from a railroad train.

Stories of brave men, noble and grand,
Belong to the life of a railroad man.

B
MAMA HAVE YOU HEARD THE NEWS?

4a # - =P eas (eens Ear a se ES
(=

Ss --

Ma-ma, ma-ma, ma-ma have youheardthenews? Dad-dy got killed on the C- B- and Q's;
