The toiling negro on railroad, levee, dump, his knees in mud, and thinking of his "luluh'', begs
cap'n (boss or gang foreman) to have the time of day correct. . . . ''Workin'" may be "wukhin'"'.
""Haist"" means "'hoist.'"' Third verse lines with dialect out would read: ;

When you see me coming

Hoist your windows high;

When you see me leaving

Hang down your heads and cry,
Brownskins,

Hang down your heads and cry.

We have this text and tune from a notable treatise on South Texas Negro Work-Songs by Gates
Thomas in No. 5 of Publications of the Texas Folk Lore Society.

Don' let yo' watch run down, Cap-'n, Don' let yo' watch run down.

Work-in' on de lev - ee, dol-lar'n half a day, Work-in' for my _ lu - luh,

get - tin' mo' dan pay, Cap-'n, Get - tin' mo' dan pay.
1 Don' let yo' watch run down, Cap'n, 2 Don' let yo' watch run down, Cap'n,
Don' let yo' watch run down. Don' let yo' watch run down.
Workin' on de levee, dollar 'n half a day, Workin' on de railroad, mud up to my knees,
Workin' for my luluh, gettin' mo' dan pay, Workin' for my luluh, she's a hard ole gal to
Cap'n, please, Cap'n,
Gettin' mo' dan pay. She's a hard ole gal to please.

3 Don' let yo' watch run down, Cap'n,
When you see me comin' haist yo' windo's high,
When you see me leavin' hang down yo' heads an' cry, brownskins,
Hang down yo' heads an' cry.

THERE'S MANY A MAN KILLED ON THE RAILROAD

The crying out loud is heard here; over smash-ups, head-on collisions, cow-catchers telescoped
in cabooses, the iron horse meeting a broken rail and taking a tumble down an enbankment, the
undertakers' harvest that came after someone was asleep at the switch-the crying out loud is

heard here. . . . It is the landlubber brother of the sailor windlass song A Hundred Years Is A
Very Long Time. . . . The prolonged repetitions of the word "'r-a-i-l-r-o-a-d" go with a crying out
loud.
Arr. H. F
There's man - y a man _ killed on the rail - road,
---
29 SE PEM BD eee ee ee

la aS

Eat y ee ee ---
ag) ae a --- --

rail - road, 'rail - road. There's man- y a mankilled on the

There's many a man killed on the railroad, railroad, railroad,
There's many a man killed on the railroad,
An' cast in a lonely grave.
