The restless sons of Man in the mountains of Kentucky sometimes descend to the plains and
live in the big cities, in the centers of wickedness, in the tents of the ungodly, where night is turned
into day by the bright lights. When they go back to the mountains sometimes they have songs
their lips have learned in strange places. Perhaps one of the children of the mountains learned a
Frankie song in one of the cities and brought it back to the mountains where the name of the heroine
was changed to Josie. Or, perhaps, it was in the mountains that the first Frankie song was born
and the name of the leading character was Josie and it was in the city that her name was changed.
When the song history of America is definitively written, we shail know about these things.

Arr. A. G. W.
2 eas Be bee Dd ne a,
SSS Se Sa See
Jo - sieshe's a good girl, as ev-'ry-bod-y knows, She _ gave onehun-dred
a a a es ee a ee ee R=
SS Sepa Sei ease =
: r=) ae === =e
oh 3 rear pees be ° os aay
od SS = -- Flame
Ae cs {--% pea Sees SD Be xin eee oeert pe SS - =n
= Stamnes asin re
ae lars Wien an 1- vo -ry - of cl clothes;"'He Miorerd rit THAN puede oe Sarena

but he won't come home

1 Josie she's a good girl, as everybody knows,
She gave one hundred dollars for an ivory suit of clothes;
"He is my man, but he won't come home."

2 She went down the street as far as I could see,
And every band that she passed by played 'Nearer My God to Thee,"
"Oh, he's my man, but he won't come home."

3 She went down the street, a revolver in her hand,
Saying, "Stand back, gents and ladies; I'm searching for my man,
Oh, he's my man, but he won't come home."

4 She stepped into the barroom, and there her husband stood,
She drew her revolver from her side and shot him thru and thru;
"He's my man, but he wouldn't come home."

5 She went down to the jail-house, keys all in her hand,
Saying, "Here, Mr. Jailer, lock me up, for I've shot my man;
He's my man, but he wouldn't come home."

6 One thing hurt Mrs. Josie, one thing made her cry,
Standing there in the courthouse door when the hurst (hearse) came rolling by;
"Oh, he's my man, but he wouldn't come home."

7 "I'm not going to wear no mourning, not going to wear no black,
But I'll go down to the graveyard and bring my Iva back;
Oh, he's my man, but he done me wrong."

8 She went down to the graveyard and fell down on her knees,
And prayed to the Lord in heaven to send her heart some ease;
"Oh, he's my man, but he wouldn't come home."

9 Sitting in the parlor by an electric fan,
Pleading with the youngest girl never to marry a gambling man;
"He'll be your man, but he'll not come home."
