This mountain piece comes from Neeta Marquis of Los Angeles, California, who recalls the
singing of it in her family when she wasa girl. It was a traditional tune of Kentucky and Tennessee
that her father said went back to the Eighteen-forties. Alfred Wathall points out that the tune
derives from an old English contra dance air.

Arr. A. G. W.
Lively

Sa SS ee ae =

Laws - a - mas- sey, what have you done? You've mar-ried the old man in -

2S aS SS ae

stead of his son! His legs are all crook-ed andwrong put on, They're

am piu lento

= ae =a <-
se ae aa ae so

a-laugh-ing at your old man. Nowyou'remar-ried youmust o- bey. You

ee

rit. poco @ poco

== Seco: spas a

must prove true to all you say. And as you have prom-ised, so
------
: percent pie cn) dh Seman Ns ae
ee a eee ee ee er :
= = eee -*
os
Fe: BR tage my

--_s--_s-_ -e oa oe |
must do,- Kiss him twice and hug him _ too.
SS
on
== 2
| eo o- = js
4 ied een eo +--_-_"|__*} os a 4 :
if eee oes e
=a
SE

1 Laws-a-massey, what have you done?
You've married the old man instead of his son!
His legs are all crooked and wrong put on,
They're all a-laughing at your old man.

2 Now you're married you must obey.
You must prove true to all you say.
And as you have promised, so now you must do, -
Kiss him twice and hug him, too.

ONE MORNING IN MAY

This is a mountain dance tune. One can see feet and fiddles, the bowing of lovers looking into
each other's eyes, the exchange of glances as they go circling in "all hands around."' Such a song
was particularly useful when the fiddler failed to show up or went out of commission with a heavy
cargo of "corn." This lineal descendant of old British balladry has many variants in America;
an instance of certain English folk-songs which have a wider variety of text and tunes in the Ap-
palachian Mountains of the United States than are to be found in the British Isles. The musical
design here is cunning, and the skill of it grows on us as we become more familiar with it. This
was heard by Gilbert R. Combs in his Pine Mountain years. He gives us two texts, One Morning
In May and The Troubled Soldier, both of which can be managed to the one tune.

Moderato

ee ee

met a fair cou-ple a -mak-ing theirway, And one was a maid-en so

Vo Cue oe gg ET
ee ee
.,"~-~- S--t™-™"-CSC EoLL--e----. oT
| yes 3: Sa 2 eleven as Sola re.
a ee i ----
sostenuto

ONE MORNING IN MAY
A

1 One morning, one morning, one morning in May
I met a fair couple a-making their way,
And one was a maiden so bright and so fair,
And the other was a soldier and a brave volunteer.

2 Good morning, good morning, good morning to thee,
O where are you going my pretty lady?
O I am a-going to the banks of the sea,
To see the waters gliding, hear the nightingale sing.

3 We hadn't been a-standing but a minute or two
When out from his knapsack a fiddle he drew,
And the tune that he played made the valleys all ring,
O see the waters gliding, hear the nightingale sing.

4 Pretty lady, pretty lady, it's time to give o'er,
O no, pretty soldier, please play one tune more,
Id rather hear your fiddle or the touch of one string
| Than to see the waters gliding, hear the nightingale sing.

5 Pretty soldier, pretty soldier, will you marry me?
O no, pretty lady, that never can be;
I've a wife in old London and children twice three;
Two wives in the army's too many for me.

6 I'll go back to London and stay there one year
And often I'll think of you my little dear,
If ever I return, 'twill be in the spring
To see the waters gliding, hear the nightingale sing.

B
THE TROUBLED SOLDIER

1 It was in the lovely month of May,
I heard a poor soldier lamenting and say,
I heard a poor soldier lamenting and moan,
"T am a troubled soldier, no friend and no home."

2 O Mary, O Mary, 'twas for your sake alone
I left my poor father and mother at home,
I left my poor father, my mother to roam, -
I am a troubled soldier, no friend and no home.

THE TROUBLED SOLDIER

83 I'm troubled in trouble, I'm troubled, and why?
If trouble don't kil! me I know I'll never die.
If Jesus don't hear me and help me to moan,
I am a troubled soldier, no friend and no home.

4 Go build me a castle on yon mountain high,
Where the wild geese can hear me as they do pass by,
Where the turtle dove can hear me and help me to mourn,
I am a troubled soldier, no friend and no home.

5 Don't you remember on one Friday night,
While by your side I sat, you said
You loved me, and my heart laid in your breast,
And if you didn't get married you never could rest?

6 Adieu to Old Kentucky I never more expect to see,
For love and misfortune has called me away,
For love and misfortune has called me to mourn,
I am a troubled soldier, no friend and no home.

POST-RAIL SONG

The post-rail fence in Kentucky has posts with holes bored in them, through which the fence

rails run. Fence-builders chant these lines to the swing of their bodies as they "'put 'em up solid."
We have this on the authority of Charles Hoening of the University of Rochester faculty. He

grew up in the blue grass region and when he had finished growing he was six feet four inches tall

and put up solid.
N " 1 : =A : aE bi
a fT | = Sa eo oe
7 = ei Ne: oe ae ot

gee
cd

Put 'em up so - lid, they won't come down! Hey, ma lad-die, they. won't come down.

Put 'em up solid, they won't come down!
Hey, ma laddie, they won't come down!

HAMMER MAN

The negro worker often makes songs on the job, whether in the white harvest of cotton or driving
a railroad tunnel through a rock mountain. We are told of a research student who took a seat on
a fence to listen to the singing of a negro work gang on a railroad. When he finally detected their
words he found they were singing lines that sounded like, "See dat white man . . . sittin' on a fence
. sittin' on a fence . . . wastin' his time . . . wastin' his time." This song from the Combs
collection was probably made by negroes on the job and learned from the negroes by the mountain
whites. Drivin' steel is hard work; the worker's stay on the job depends on whether he is treated
right or wrong; the idea is big enough for a song whose tempo is hammer swing rhythms.

Arr. A. G. W.
SS ee, :
eee ae eee
' oe 6 =. Se : = @ is e ' = |
Driv - in' - steel, 'driv - in' - steel, Driv -in' steel, boys, Is hard work, I

cae, pone ¥ = 2 Sabiaoe a8
2S SS a See ee er ae
=a => => => =>
wen = Fs ae = es
ao
Se
-- hoe = hf (@--# e -
+ oe 7 oe eo Se =
ke
know; Driv-in' steel, driv -in' steel, driv-in' steel, boys, Is hard work, I know.
=>
fe SS ees
a ee a ae eel
Sg a Sel
u ras [eee ea oe aes bi
a_i zs me A a ae nae o_o @ ce
ey ees Be
1 Drivin' steel, drivin' steel, 2 Treat me right, treat me right,
_ Drivin' steel, boys, Treat me right, boys,
Is hard work, I know; ~ I am bound to stay all day;
'Drivin' steel, drivin' steel, Treat me wrong, treat me wrong,
Drivin' steel, boys, 'Treat me wrong, boys,
Is hard work, I know. I am bound to run away.

3 Boss man, boss man,
Boss man, boys,
See the boss man comin' down the line,
Boss man, boss man,
Boss man, boys,
See the boss man comin' down the line.

LOVE SOMEBODY, YES I DO

Fiddlers play this. Its timebeat is to "all hands circle round." If the fiddlers fail to come the
dancers can sing their music. The word "love" is mentioned in every line but the last, "'Tween
sixteen and twenty-two." It is for young folks, and has air and step from an old English contra
dance, Wathall tells us. Also, for this we are indebted to the Combs collection.

Con moto Arr. A. G. W.

Love some-bod - y, yes I do; love some-bod - y, _ yes I do;

mf = (leggierissimo) p mf p -
aa eS g ae RTS

Love some-bod - y, yes do; Love some-bod -y, but I  won't tell who.

Love some-bod - y, yes

LOVE SOMEBODY, YES I DO

nd poco rit, -- & a tempo SS =

akges verre aa ae namo epee ral ae pi aes ra = = fl
SSS SS

Love some-bod - y, yes I do; And I hopesome-bod - y_ loves me_ too.

8 8 " Lon
(ao -- |
a - Te ae ae gee oa eae
(mp) poco rit -----
=: :
a ree eer = A aie es
: == Se = Se ee
1 Love somebody, yes I do; 2 Love somebody, yes I do;
Love somebody, yes I do; Love somebody, yes I do;
Love somebody, yes I do; Love somebody, yes I do;
Love somebody, but I won't tell who. Love somebody, but I won't tell who.
Love somebody, yes I do; Love somebody, yes I do;
Love somebody, yes I do; Love somebody, yes I do;
Love somebody, yes I do; Love somebody, yes I do,
And I hope somebody loves me too. *T ween sixteen and twenty-two.

AIN'T GONNA RAIN

This Iowa and Nebraska dance song has mountaineer and negro versions; it came west from
Kentucky and other southern states according to Edwin Ford Piper; it is at least as old as the
1870's.

aes a

1. It ain't gon-na rain, it  ain't gon-na_ snow, ain't gon-na rain no

SS SS SS SS SS Il

mo'; Come on ey - ry - bod- y_ now, Ain't gon-na rain no mo'.

2 Oh, what did the blackbird say to the crow? 3 Bake them biscuits good and brown,

It ain't gonna rain no mo', It ain't gonna rain no mo'.
Ain't gonna hail, ain't gonna snow, Swing yo' ladies round and round,
Ain't gonna rain no mo'. Ain't gonna rain no mo'.

KENTUCKY MOONSHINER

Gilbert R. Combs says that of all songs he heard as he grew up in the mountains, this is the
most desolate and poignant. It wails; it brandishes sorrow; it publishes grief; it opens the final
stop-gaps of lonely fate, staunchly vocal. This relates directly to ancient Gaelic lamentations over
dead kings; it is "keening" of a sort and has the character of melody suitable to a wake over one
with the lights gone from him. A "grocery," we note, is a general store keeping liquor among
provisions and staples for sale.

Arr. A. G. W.

Vehemently, desolately, and with easy sliding from note to note.

=e Se o a a

a moon - shin - er

= 87, ¢

for sev'n - teen long years, I've

at

wa:
po colla voce

|
|

fee
|
|
adele

--

Qigu} V

ee ee ee eee es mee ee
SS eS

spent all for whis -key and beers. ll go to some hol-ler, I'll

CN .
e CN fen oN |
Pe o es ae a = --- --
> CEE --_- o/s ° == ae

Gre
eo

my mon - ey

al

a

dol - lar bill.

I'll make you one gal - lon for

KENTUCKY MOONSHINER

1 [I've been a moonshiner for seventeen long years,
I've spent all my money for whiskey and beers.
Pll go to some holler, I'll put up my still,

Tl make you one gallon for a two dollar bill.

2 I'll go to some grocery and drink with my friends,
No women to follow to see what I spends.
God bless those pretty women, I wish they were mine,
Their breath smells as sweet as the dew on the vine.

8 I'll eat when I'm hungry and drink when I'm dry,
If moonshine don't kill me, I'll live till I die.
God bless those moonshiners, I wish they were mine,
Their breath smells as sweet as the good old moonshine.

MISTER FROG WENT A-COURTING

"Tn continuous use for four hundred years," L. W. Payne tells us in a forty-four page history
of the song in Publication No. 5 of the Texas Folk Lore Society; he prints sixteen tunes and has

many more. The following is a Kentucky and Virginia version, with text additions from Payne.
"Ah-hah" can be "uhn-huhn," "eh-heh," "och-kungh"' (like a bull frog) and, as you please.

Co es
--- | - = 2 a ee
Mis - ter Frog went a-court-ing, he did ride, ah-hah, ah-hah! Mis - ter

(oa SS Ss al

---+
j
Sse

Frog went a-court-ing,he did ride, aswordandpis-tol by his side, ah-hah, ah- hah!

1 Mister Frog went a-courting, he did ride, ah-hah, ah-hah!
Mister Frog went a-courting, he did ride, a sword and a pistol by his side, ah-hah, ah-hah!
2 He rode up to Miss Mousie's door, ah-hah, ah-hah!
He rode up to Miss Mousie's door, where he had often been before, ah-hah, ah-hah!

3 Now Uncle Rat when he came home says, "' Who's been here since I been gone?"

4 "A very fine gentleman has been here who wishes me to be his dear."

5 Uncle Rat laughed and shook his side to think his niece would be a bride.

6 Uncle Rat on a horse he went to town to buy his niece a wedding gown.

7% Where shall the wedding supper be? Away down yonder in a hollow tree.

8 What shall the wedding supper be? Three green beans and a black-eyed pea.

9 Tell us, what was the bride dressed in? A cream gauze veil!and a brass breastpin.
10 Tell us next what was the groom dressed in? Sky blue britches with silver stitches.
11 The first came in was a bumble bee, to play the fiddle upon his knee.
12 They all sat down and began to chat, when in walked the kitten and the cat.
13 Mrs. Cat she stepped to the supper and turned over the plate of butter.
14 Miss Mousie went a-tearing up the wall, her foot slipped and she got a fall.
15 They all went a-sailing across the lake, and they all were swallowed by a big black snake.
16 So here's the end of one, two, three, the cat, the frog and Miss Mousie.
17 There's bread and cheese upon the shelf, and if you want any just help yourself.

KIND MISS

"Did she marry him for love or money?" is about as old as the query, "Would you rather
marry a handsome man who is poor or a man with lots of money and a face like a mud fence?"
The answer among children is, "I'd rather have both." In the Kentucky song here we have an
offer of marriage, even elopement. The girl refuses and tells why. . . . Ann Riddell Anderson of
the University of Kentucky communicates this; her father, Hugh Riddell, is judge in a circuit
of courts including '" Bloody Breathitt '' County.

Arr. A. G. W.
Con moto

SSS SS SS

Kind miss, kind miss, go ask yourmoth-er' If you, my bride shall ev-er be.

U0 LeT 10 i --<-<-= --- poco rit. ~*~
3 =a eS = S|

If she says "Yes," Comeback and tell me, If she says "No," we'll run a - way.

1 Kind miss, kind miss, go ask your mother
If you, my bride shall ever be.
If she says "Yes,"' come back and tell me,
If she says "No," we'll run away.

2 Kind miss, I have much gold and silver,
Kind miss, I have a house and land,
Kind miss, I have a world of pleasure,
And all of these at thy command.

3 What do I care for your gold and silver,
What do I care for your house and land,
What do I care for your world of pleasure,
When all I want is a handsome man.

GOIN' DOWN TO TOWN

This is comic poetry, in a rough and tumble sense, put to a tune that is strictly rough and
Millions of horses and mules have heard this, and the likes of it, from drivers on the
It is a horse's earful.

tumble.
wagon seat singing to themselves.

ea

I used to have

fe a a BS x
= SS - 2 7 = :

an old grey horse, He weighedten thou - sand pounds,

os S|

# - = = ae ee aN F
CSS SSS SSS SS SS
Ev -'ry tooth he had in his head, Was eight-teen in-ches a - round.

: REFRAIN

Im a - go - in' down to

town,

SS

Tm a- go -in' down to town, Tm

SSS ee el

in' down

1 I used to have an old grey horse,
He weighed ten thousand pounds,
Ev'ry tooth he had in his head,
Was eighteen inches around.

Refrain:
I'm a-goin' down to town,
I'm a-goin' down to town,
I'm a-goin' down to Lynchburg town,
To carry my tobacco down.

2 That horse he had a holler tooth,
He could eat ten bushels of corn,
Ev'ry time he opened his mouth,
Two bushels and a half were gone.
Refrain:

to Lynch-burg town,

To car- ry my to-bac-co down.

3 I had a yaller gal,
I brought her from the south,
All the fault I had with her,
She had too big a mouth.
Refrain:

4 I took her down to the blacksmith shop,
To get her mouth made small,
She opened her mouth to get a long breath,
And swallowed blacksmith, shop and all.
Refrain:

5 I'm a-goin' to get me some sticks and sand,
To make my chimney higher,
To keep that dog-goned old tom cat,
From puttin' out my fire.
Refrain:

THE SHIP THAT NEVER RETURNED

A Kentucky mountain version of a popular song of about 1870, we are told. Gilbert R. Combs
heard it as a boy on Pine Mountain. The Prisoner's Song, a 1925-1926 "hit," got its melody from
"The Ship that Never Returned" and its verses from another old timer, "Moonlight." That is,
two songs Broadway launched and forgot, lived on and changed, mellowed and sweetened among
the mountaineers. Years later the tune of one forgotten "hit" joined to the verses of another,
sweep the country as a Broadway triumph. Such, in short, is the history of The Prisoner's Song;
R. W. Gordon is to give us the documents in full. From the homemade dulcimers of Pine Mountain
to the repercussive banjoes and sobbing saxophones of Broadway was a long leap for this old tune.
It will be fretted on the keyboards of those same dulcimers when Broadway has again tossed it to
the ash cans. The manner and method of its next comeback is anybody's guess.

Breezily and nautically Arr, H. EP.
ET EE, HESS a
-- S<- 4 -*-

@

On a sum- mer'sday while the waves were rip-pling,with a qui-et and a gen -tle

=
REFRAIN
= a

port be-yond the sea... Did she ey -er  re-turn? No, she

| THE SHIP THAT NEVER RETURNED

SSS eS

nev-er returned,andher fate is still un-learned, . . . But a last poorman set

sail com-mand-er, on a _ ship that nev-er re - turned. . eas

SS SSS

as 4° => =>

1 On a summer's day while the waves were rippling, with a quiet and a gentle breeze;
A ship set sail with a cargo laden for a port beyond the sea.
Refrain:
Did she ever return? No, she never returned, and her fate is still unlearned,
. But a last poor man set sail commander, on a ship that never returned.

2 There were sad farewells, there were friends forsaken, and her fate is still unlearned,
But a last poor man set sail commander on a ship that never returned.
Refrain:

3 Said a feeble lad to his aged mother, I must cross that deep blue sea,
For I hear of a land in the far off country, where there's health and strength for me.
Refrain:

4 °'Tis a gleam of hope and a maze of danger, and our fate is still to learn,
And a last poor man set sail commander, on a ship that never returned.
Refrain:

5 Said this feeble lad to his aged mother, as he kissed his weeping wife,
'Just one more purse of that golden treasure, it will last us all through life.
Refrain:

6 "Then we'll live in peace and joy together and enjoy all I have earned."
So they sent him forth with a smile and blessing on a ship that never returned.

Refrain:

DOWN IN THE VALLEY

Here are nine verses of a poem as idle as the wind. It is an old fashioned lyric, simple in its
stitches yet as fixed in its design as certain "'kiverlids" made by housewives in the Kentucky moun-
tains. I have heard the remark, "It is a good song to be singing while writing a love letter - it is

full of wishes - and dances a little - and hopes a beloved dancing partner will come back." The
text and tune are from Frances Ries of Batavia, Ohio.
Arr. A. G. W.
: Andante Bee
ae -- <a
eB @- (ere t ae ---
2S aa

Down in the val - lIley, The val-ley so low, Hang your head
a ae
a = z = - 2 |Seecoe a
<o -g <g= Cg= a3 ima a
(oP gf wl rom cr cn) emer pear io-e oo © Me Can
dolce, tranquillo coe) sokS ee ees | --- ===
apace eee SS
a 4 : te <2 ---- Se

Gale - ver, Hear the wind blow

} = a
oar als z = 2 ee ee Bb Soma
ae = ee a S =i in oon ornare! eo sa
: aos fis meas a Sopir sem. - a
See am By - He FF SF FS

[-- | Epa ay jl eS SY
- <-_¥ - ¢- 4g => J eg =>-- ----
- > 7a zal

1 Down in the valley,
The valley so low,
Hang your head over,
Hear the wind blow.

2 Hear the wind blow, dear,
Hear the wind blow,
Hang your head over,
Hear the wind blow.

3 If you don't love me,
Love whom you please;
Throw your arms 'round me,
Give my heart ease.

4 Throw your arms 'round me,
Before it's too late;
Throw yours 'round me,
Feel my heart break.

5 Writing this letter,
Containing three lines,
Answer my question:
"Will you be mine?"

6 "Will you be mine, dear,
Will you be mine?"
Answer my question:
"Will you be mine?"

ee iF prLIRG fe

7 Go build me a castle
Forty feet high;
So I can see him,
As he goes by.

8 As he goes by, dear;
As he goes by;
So I can see him,
As he goes by.

9 Roses love sunshine,
Violets love dew,
Angels in heaven
Knows I love you.

I DREAMED LAST NIGHT OF MY TRUE LOVE

English travelers have said it is the 17th century language of England that is spoken in certain

isolated mountain and seaboard COnicts of America. Among these pocketed populations they say
"poke" for "pocket," "my may" for "my sweetheart," and asking a kiss, ""Come buss me."

The mountaineer may remark of his horse, "That mare is the loveliest runner and the sensiblest
animal I ever saddled,"' or he may give places names such as Shoo Bird Mountain, Shake-a-rag
Holler, or Huggins Hell. Once in Kentucky a wanderer inquiring the route was told he was on the
right road and to go on "about two screeches and a holler." . . . The independent lingo and manner
of the mountaineer is in this text and tune from Mrs. Mark E. Hutchinson of Mount Vernon, Iowa.

ee =o Se

I dreamed last night of my true love All in my arms I had her' Her

Se ay
aS Ce ee
aM oe
=
1 I dreamed last night of my true love. 3 He said that she was not there,
All in my arms I had her; And neither would he keep her.
Her pretty yeller hair like strands of gold, I turned around to go away,
Lay dangling round my piller. My love she come to the winder.
2 I waked in the morning and found her not. 4 She said that she would come to me,
I was forced to do without her; If doors nor locks did not hinder.
I went unto her uncle's house, I turned around and broke them locks,
Inquiring for this lady. I broke 'em all asinder (asunder).

DRIVIN' STEEL

The mountaineers of East Tennessee have their own song of the steel driving man who toils in
tunnels and on railroads. This version is from Gilbert R. Combs as he heard it from mountaineers.
It is a working class song straight from men on the job, uttered to muscular body rhythms. We
can almost hear the ring of steel on steel. There is heave of shoulders, deep breath control, the
touch of hands on a familiar well-worn hammer handle.

A little lively. Arr. A. G. W.
Soe ee ee
eo Saeed a er ae
If I could drive steel like John MHen - Wy ae. Td go

1 If I could drive steel like John Henry
I'd go home, Baby, I'd go home.

2 If I had forty-one dollars
I'd go home, Baby, I'd go home.

3 I'm goin' home and tell Little Annie,
No mo' trials, Baby, no mo' trials.

4 Do you hear that rain crow hollerin'?
Sign of rain, Baby, sign of rain.

5 This old hammer killed John Henry
Can't kill me, Baby, can't kill me.

6 This old hammer killed Bill Dooley
Can't kill me, Baby, can't kill me.

7 This old hammer weighs forty pounds, sah,
Can't kill me, Baby, can't kill me.

THE LINCOLNS AND HANKSES

THE MISSOURI HARMONY
WINDSOR .
GREENFIELDS
WORTHINGTON .
HIGHBRIDGE

LEGACY

THE BROWN GIRL OR FAIR ELEANOR .

HEY BETTY MARTIN

OLD BRASS WAGON
CUCKOO WALTZ
WEEVILY WHEAT
EL-A-NOY .

HOOSEN JOHNNY

MY PRETTY LITTLE PINK
LINCOLN AND LIBERTY .

OLD ABE LINCOLN CAME OUT OF THE WILDERNESS

HARMONIZATION BY

Aljred G. Wathall :

Hazel Felman
Hazel Felman

H azel F hee ;

Alfred G. Wathall
Alfred G. Wathall .

Hazel Felman

PAGH

THE MISSOURI HARMONY

A famous oblong song book of the pioneer days in the middle west was "The Missouri Har-
mony," published in 1808 by Morgan and Sanxay of Cincinnatti. Young Abraham Lincoln and
his sweetheart, Ann Rutledge, sang from this book in the Rutledge tavern in New Salem, according
to old settlers there. It was used at camp meetings of Peter Cartwright and other circuit riding
evangelists, and was highly thought of by many church members in the Mississippi Valley.

Though the volume included "Legacy" an Irish drinking song, praising "balmy drops of the
red grape," the author in his instructions to singers, warned them: "A cold or cough, all kinds of
spiritous liquors, violent exercise, bile upon the stomach, long fasting, the veins overcharged with
impure blood, etc., etc., are destructive to the voice of one who is much in the habit of singing. A
frequent use of spiritous liquors will speedily ruin the best voice."

In further advice on vocal hygiene, he declared, "A frequent use of some acid drink, such as
purified cider, elixir of vitriol with water, vinegar, etc., if used sparingly is strengthening to the
lungs."

The author of the "supplement" on how to sing, kept himself anonymous, the title page saying
the book was "By An Amateur." He desired his readers to know "the superiority of vocal to
instrumental music is, that while one only pleases the ear, the other informs the understanding."
Under the head of "General Observations," he gave these hints on the frame of mind singers should
try for: 'There should not be any noise indulged in while singing (except the music) as it destroys
entirely the beauty of harmony, and renders the performance (especially to learners) very difficult;
and if it is designedly promoted, it is nothing less than a proof of disrespect in the singers to the
exercise, to themselves who occasion it, and to the Author of our existence."'

"All 'affectation' should be banished. It is disgusting in the performance of sacred music,
and contrary to that solemnity which should accompany an exercise so near akin to that which will
through all eternity engage the attention of those who walk 'in climes of bliss.'"? "The great
Jehovah, who implanted in our nature the noble faculty of vocal performance, is jealous of the use
to which we apply our talents in that particular lest we exercise them in a way which does not tend
to glorify his name."

The pages from the "Missouri Harmony," reproduced here, contain at least two songs with
which Abraham Lincoln had close acquaintance. Dennis Hanks, a cousin of Lincoln, has related
that in Spencer County, Indiana, the song, "How Tedious and Tasteless the Hours," (Greenfields),
was well-known, and New Salem, Illinois, residents have told of how Lincoln parodied "Legacy."

'IOSPUIAA JO OIsnu uUIAY oq} Jo ydeisojoyd ® st Mopfg 'sroouold JSoOMprIUr SUOMI
pesn AjapIm pue "IyeUuUIOUI Ul gOsT UI peystjqnd yooqsuos e 'Auourreyy Tnossty[ oy, Jo aged a[}1} oY} WoIj Soul] ole BAOGY

Es . 2 TTS SIC ° > wm:

'NGQ@GUVO Gd NUTIV Ad

ISAWAOSLNANIGNU GNV SGNNOUD AHL OL NOILONAGOULNINV HLIM
*SYUOH.LAV LNGNING KOUs

'SWHHLINV GNV 'SUNOL NWAH GNV WIVSd
40 NOILOATIOS V uO

(OM O18 SULIOM Susp JEYAA ,, 'AO SH YA "OrjstozOBAVYO st 'Mopoq "UOPUTYWOAA UL ApTUINY
Jo syjdop oy], 'oaoqe sv 'spjeyuecrx) se YW poquesoid AuowIePY WNosslPy OY, ,,SMMoY oy} ssepoysvz pue snfo} MOP_T,, 'Sem uo
pres oy 'vueipuy 'juno sJeouedg ur sivoX Joy} Ul Suvs sosyuR]] pue supooUry oy} SSUOS FEYA PoYSe SVM SUPT

sTuue(y US MA

Ssurcsy [BOUT 3NO $1 9(qQa9) MOTT
Som aun suo Jur lp 30 44 'omBsy [you Ino 8f 91499) rs)

SS Me a2 kepial
as | Oa 0 ee) eS = 1 et |
aa pe Pee tad eg St

as, au prea mation suits WIAA

» 4B) 4 aha ST aT,
mR 'Onn ita tt Lt A

et: 2 ea Som maces ee ow scr oneesl rae ecm mut

aaa CE ea a ag ty d saz cael se oa soy _H pat h mare

if eee

Ley cv pussuaid sv s,s3quraca 'any um Lddeq ore 7
"OU 0} $500}90M8E ITSQ} el 2 aan £1,809 30948 pus 'sping 720m3

rE
=f

E

Ss

T AALS splan dup "wtp 4nq saurgs UNS Zo~WUINEpPEN ou Lf,
O] OU sRS9F YOY AA "SINOY 9Y) sea]0}9B PUB SHOIPS) MOZY

4 Baas) Ge i ) Ee - ad "d % 5 ' a e 7 = 3 rE es &
eS Mean eatl 2g : cam us we. mm > 2 LS 4

68 SaTaIInaIyD

"sgouep ye sio(ppo
Axyunos fq pasn se oun} oy} fa1ooypy semoyy, Sq spiom YM Are Ys] Plo Ue st 'AovBay] 'Mojeq ouo oy, 'equiny 'snord 'uursjos
st 'aspliqysiy 'eAoqe ouo ayy, '"suljeay pue ouoy Ul soyisoddo oie AUOMIe]T Wnossip, ouy, Wor osed sty} UO ssuOs OM} OU],

"auypa par sopstus UO PAT FI JOY [JOT,
Sourpood WBS [[UYs ; 4ruop ur Udy AA

iS
Low

Ye)
Yes
re

x MD orp 03 sn 317 Kyord yo s90au0 asia 8 [ITY, "Bde sry yno U9; IUa] Aypuny puy *uvar st press Moy 'ploy O "en Yotay g
enor un ie BALA i Ss Tia oae oie 4yda0 dearesip Beysng 'frau sn tdaomg 'ueasts SALONS a arl "quod

: Be ok out of usnyayis Vent sum 'psory 'aouazuos [nypeosp Ay, + Az1UvA pun yiwA jo dn opeyy "orp OF Wiog sf Sout Ywad ue mE E

Siaits =e quis oy puu ypiua ady 44 'ounpua []Bqs wopaary Ay Snof puy 'uuu Ozur puorysuy sua stip JO uBsaq dUII} 919 ,UTIOL NOY) JsBy Buoy F

j = === SSeS ta 1 heat : ag Pereeic|

- : GQ
eg } nes eee J f ome 1 as | 4 oi» an (= . wat Swe -ay awry

om,

O 'apeur se

THE BROWN GIRL OR FAIR ELEANOR

Nancy Hanks in her old Kentucky home, sang ballads the western pioneers brought through
Cumberland Gap from the uplands and mountains farther east. The story of the Brown Girl
stabbing Fair Eleanor, then having her head cut off by Lord Thomas, who killed himself and was
buried with the two women, sounds almost like a grand opera plot. Grim and terrible though this
ballad story is, the tune is even, comforting, a little like riding a slow galloping horse. It is still
used in many a southern mountain home for rocking the children to sleep. Little Abe Lincoln,
as a child, probably heard The Brown Girl, according to persons familiar with Kentucky back-
grounds. 'This version is from the Reed Smith ballad group published by the University of South
Carolina; it was heard by Tressie Pierce in Alexander County, North Carolina. The thirteenth
verse is an interpolation from another text, to explain the killing of Lord Thomas by himself before
he is buried with the two ladies who so suddenly met violent deaths. Where the singer is so in-
clined, the last lines of each verse are repeated.

a =

"The Brown Girl she has hous-es and lands, Fair El-eanorshe has none; The

a ae =e. -= Sa = See es el

best ad -vice T can give you, my son, Is to bring the Brown Girl homies

1 "The Brown Girl she has houses and lands,
Fair Eleanor she has none;
The best advice I can give you, my son,
Is to bring the Brown Girl home."

2 He dressed himself in scarlet red,
And rode all over the town;
And everybody that saw him that day,
Thought he was the King.

8 He rode till he came to Fair Eleanor's door,
And tingled at the ring;
And none so ready as Fair Eleanor,
To arise and let him in.

4 "What news, what news, Lord Thomas," she said,
"What news have you for me?"
"T've come to ask you to my weddin',
Tomorrow is the day."

Or

"Bad news, bad news, Lord Thomas," she said,
"Bad news, bad news, to me;

You've come to ask me to your weddin',
When I thought your bride I was to be.''

THE BROWN GIRL OR FAIR ELEANOR

6 She dressed herself in scarlet red,
And rode all over the town;
And everybody that saw her that day,
Took her to be the Queen.

7 She rode till she came to Lord Thomas' door,
And tingled at the ring;
And none so ready as Lord Thomas himself,
To arise and let her in.

8 "Is this your bride? Lord Thomas," she cried,
"T'm sure, she's wonderful brown;
You might have had as fair a young bride,
As ever the sun shone on."'

9 The Brown Girl, she had a long pen-knife,
*T was wonderful long and sharp;
Between the short ribs and the long,
She pierced Fair Eleanor's heart.

10 "Fair Eleanor, what makes you look so pale?
You used to look so red;
You used to have two rosy red cheeks,
And now you've nary one."

11 "Oh, don't you see, or can't you see,
The knife that was pierced in me?
Oh, don't you see my own heart's blood,
A-tricklin' to my knee?"

12 Lord Thomas had a long broad-sword,
It was wonderful long and sharp,
He cut the head of the Brown Girl off,
And kicked it against the wall.

13 He pointed the handle toward the sun,
The point toward his breast.
''Here is the going of three true loves,
God send our souls to rest.

14 "Go dig my grave under yonder green tree,
Go dig it wide and long;
And bury Fair Eleanor in my arms,
And the Brown Girl at my feet."

HEY BETTY MARTIN

In the early 1890's, in the tank towns of the corn belt, few women bobbed their hair. Often
when a woman who had taken this liberty walked along Main Street on a night when there was to
be a band concert on the public square, she was an object of special scrutiny. Young men would
sing at her:

Chippy, get your hair cut, hair cut, hair cut,
Chippy, get your hair cut, hair cut short.

The tune went back to a ditty sung in the 1860's during the War between the States, as follows:

Johnny, git your gun and your sword and your pistol,
Johnny, git your gun and come with me.

The tune is at least as old as the War of 1812, when drummer boys beat it on their drums and
sang words about "Hey Betty Martin Tiptoe." We have that drummer's melody and words from
A. T. Vance, a Long Island, New York, fisherman who was raised in Kansas, and whose great-
grandfather was a drummer in the War of 1812. The tune is traditionary in the Vance family and
is executed with variations by Comfort Vance, son of A. T. The tempo, Wathall indicates, is alle-
gretto scherzando, which in 1812 meant " Make it snappy," or "Let's go."

Allegretto scherzando Arr. A. G. W.

y mf- P= ae mf - p >
a =

PINKNEY JSC, NX

OLD BRASS WAGON

Indiana, Missouri and Iowa pioneers had this dance game. The note following the verses
below is from The Play-Party in Indiana by Leah Jackson Wolford.

Arr. H. F.
eS

to the left, ite Old Brass Wag - on; Cir- cle to the left, the

c -

SS = Seo: Ese ee SUS =a

2 a=
= ee
Sie =a

1 Circle to the left, Old Brass Wagon,
You're the one, my darling.

2 Swing oh swing, Old Brass Wagon,
You're the one, my darling.

3 Promenade home, Old Brass Wagon,
You're the one, my darling.

4 Shoddish up and down, the Old Brass Wagon,
You're the one, my darling.

5 Break and swing, the Old Brass Wagon,
You're the one, my darling.

6 Promenade around the Old Brass Wagon,
You're the one, my darling.

Nore. - Repeat the first line of each stanza three times. During 1, all join hands, boys being
at the left of their partners, and circle left. At 2, they drop hands and each boy swings his partner.
During 3, partners promenade, circling to the right. Repeat from the beginning while singing
stanzas 4, 5 and 6.

CUCKOO WALTZ

The tune here is ancient. Saxon, Teuton, Slav, Magyar, have used the likes of it in dance and

folk song. ... Hazel Felman gives it an old-fashioned music box setting. ... Leah Jackson Wol-
ford's book on "The Play-Party in Indiana," includes the tune and a description of the dance.
Arr. H. F.

YD -- = Soe eel Se eet

=t4 ge ae SaaS = = = = = Sew ee a

Three times round the cuck-oo waltz,Three times enti the cuck-oo waltz,Three times round the
SUG ee Rene oe EE

a ae
Sao a SS SSS

=

ritard. a ores

a ee ee

cuck-oo waltz,Love- ly aot - le i Fare thee well, my charming eat Fare thee well 'm

& we 2+ © se © -S- St _
== = ee
= al = o~ a

eee aoe are el ed, Ea os See
a ea Pisa = Sma = SN | -==||
Fare thee well, my charming girl, With gold-en slip-pers_ on.

spe Fe ever : eo === = --- a === fl

Sa a

Ea ee eee gene nee
ase ge - Sa 'ei pate ee
ae oe ee
1 (a) Choose your pard as we go round, 2(c) Fare thee well, my charming girl,
Choose your pard as we go round, (d) Fare thee well I'm gone,
Choose your pard as we go round, Fare thee well, my charming girl,
(b) We'll all take Susie Brown. With golden slippers on.

Norte. - A boy and a girl stand in the center. All of the others (irrespective of partners)
circle to the left around them during (a). At (b) the girl chooses a boy, the boy a girl, and all four
stand in the center. At (c) the two couples in the center form a circle, each boy opposite his partner.
Partners cross hands forming a "star" and circle left. Repeat with left hands and circle right. At
(d) each of the boys in the center swings the contrary girl, then two-steps with his partner.

WEEVILY WHEAT

"Way Down in the Paw Paw Patch," and "All Chaw Hay on the Corner,' were play-party
3ongs in early times in Indiana. Others were "Pig in the Parlor," "Pop, Goes the Weasel," "Old
Bald Eagle Sail Around," "Old Sister Phoebe," "Skip to My Lou," "Thus the Farmer Sows His
Seed." A dance somewhat like Virginia Reel went to the song of "Weevily Wheat." Indications
are that the Charley of this song may be the Prince Charlie of Jacobite ballads; he figures in songs
of the Scotch Highlanders who were harassed during Prince Charlie's time, left their homes to take
up life in the Alleghanies and to spread westward.

ban a: Ss Nias ee nee a a ee
SSN ty =
or pa ess
It's step her to your weev'-ly wheat, It's step her to your bar - ley, It's
E v NS = a =a @ = o = 1 = ol
'oe = a @ oe E ma mI c is © > a ec cd es HI
step her to your weev -'ly wheat, To bake a cake for Char - ley.

1 It's step her to your weev'ly wheat,
It's step her to your barley,
It's step her to your weev'ly wheat,
To bake a cake for Charley.

Refrain:
O Charley he's a fine young man,
O Charley he's a dandy,
He loves to hug and kiss the girls,
And feed 'em on good candy.

2%

The higher up the cherry tree,

The riper grow the cherries,

The more you hug and kiss the girls,
The sooner they will marry.

Refrain:

3 Over the river to water the sheep,
To measure up the barley,
Over the river to water the sheep,
To bake a cake for Charley.
Refrain:

4 My pretty little Pink, I suppose you think,
I care but little about you,
But I'll let you know before you go
I cannot do without you.

Refrain:

EKL-A-NOY

Among the pioneers were boomers, boosters. About the time this song came, the Shawnee-
town Advocate, only newspaper in seven counties of southern Illinois, was proclaiming its ideal to be
"universal liberty abroad, and an ocean-bound republic at home." In northern Illinois, the Gem
of the Prairie, a weekly magazine published in Chicago, was declaring, ""The West must have a
literature peculiarly its own. It is here that the great problem of human destiny will be worked out
on a grander scale than was ever before attempted or conceived." . . . John D. Black, a Chicago
attorney-at-law, lived on the Ohio River as a boy and heard his father sing El-a-noy. . . . Shawnee
Ferry was a crossing point for many who had come by the Ohio river route or on Wilderness Road
through Cumberland Gap, headed for Illinois . . . The fourth verse is probably a later addition
thrown in by some joker who felt challenged by the preceding verses.

Moderately, with blarney ar,

a ae

"Way down . up-on the Wa- bash, Sich land was nev - er known;

lon °
= Se SSS SSS
= a a

gar-den He'dplayed in when a _ boy, Andstraight pro-nounceit E-den, In the

EL-A-NOY

ReFrain 17 lime

1 'Way down upon the Wabash,
Sich land was never known;
If Adam had passed over it,
The soil he'd surely own;
He'd think it was the garden
He'd played in when a boy,
And straight pronounce it Eden,
In the State of El-a-noy.
Refrain:
Then move your family westward,
Good health you will enjoy,
And rise to wealth and honor
In the State of El-a-noy.
'T was here the Queen of Sheba came,
With Solomon of old,
With an Ass load of spices,
Pomegranates and fine gold;
And when she saw this lovely land,
Her heart was filled with joy,
Straightway she said: "I'd like to be
A Queen in El-a-noy."
Refrain:

3 She's bounded by the Wabash,
The Ohio and the Lakes,
She's crawfish in the swampy lands,
The milk-sick and the shakes;
But these are slight diversions
And take not from the joy
Of living in this garden land,
The State of El-a-noy.
Refrain:
Away up in the northward,
Right on the border line,
A great commercial city,
Chicago, you will find.
Her men are all like Abelard,
Her women like Heloise;
All honest virtuous people,
For they live in El-a-noy.
Last Refrain:
Then move your family westward,
Bring all your girls and boys,
And cross at Shawnee ferry
To the State of El-a-noy.

ee

HOOSEN JOHNNY

Lawyers sat around the wood stoves of the taverns and hotels of the Eighth Circuit in Illinois
and sang this on many a winter night. Lincoln heard it often. It was a favorite of his singing
friend with the banjo, Ward Hill Lamon. Col. Clark E. Carr, who came to Illinois in 1852 and was
a first settler of Galesburg, tells us in his book "The Illini" of these verses, "The improvisor would
go on singing as long as he could. The solo is a sort of droning chant; but the chorus, when sung
by good voices, is superb. The song became a favorite with lawyers traveling the circuit in those
days, and was often sung on convivial occasions. It is said that at one time, at Knoxville in our
county, when some good news that caused universal rejoicing had been received, the court was
adjourned, and judge, lawyers, jury, spectators, paraded around the public square singing, 'De ol'
black bull kem down de medder.' It must be remembered that this was before the days of brass
bands and other artificial contrivances for giving expression to tumultuous feeling."

Arr. A. G. W.

a= Sa ca
-=> re New!

CHorvs 3%
eee ERTS ao -_
rears sane sie
lit - tle black bull kem down de medder, {Long time a - go. Long time a - go,

=~ x -' = =a ioe| -¥ iO renee Os

---- Ae ag ener eee ggg | eee =
$ S-¢s foe ss ¢:

-_- "- nyse, +a (stucc.) Feud - -=

=> > = = 3 : - - >> = 2 = ~.. '2: :
awe = - = ees a _---
a B 72 -

ie ;
SSS SI

long time a - go, De little black bull kem down de medder,Long time a - go.

5 - aE = sales ee = =
ae 19-3 yao Ean EEE - = Ee ee eos oe -a!
Fog eae Sane el See ey poe ee ets

- jd A

> => => - - > >=
= -- ee oa
gb Se ee 2 s == bs ee
oe oon r >
SS

HOOSEN JOHNNY

1 De little black bull kem down de medder,
Hoosen Johnny, Hoosen Johnny.
De little black bull kem down de medder,
Long time ago.

Chorus:
Long time ago, long time ago,
De little black bull kem down de medder,
Long time ago.

2 Fust he paw and den he beller,
Hoosen Johnny, Hoosen Johnny.
Fust he paw and den he beller,
Long time ago.

3 He whet his horn on a white oak saplin',
Hoosen Johnny, Hoosen Johnny.
He whet his horn on a white oak saplin',
Long time ago.

4 He shake his tail, he jar de ribber,

Hoosen Johnny, Hoosen Johnny.

He shake his tail, he jar de ribber,
Long time ago.

5 He paw de dirt in de heifers' faces,

Hoosen Johnny, Hoosen Johnny.

He paw de dirt in de heifers' faces,
Long time ago.

il

|

MY PRETTY LITTLE PINK

A dance song known in Kentucky, Indiana and Illinois became a knapsack and marching tune
with Mexican War references... . . The line patrolled was about 2500 miles, from Santa Fe to Vera
Cruz; young men, volunteers mostly, filled the ranks; they were a long ways from home and needed
a quickstep tune with a don't-care lyric. . . . The first verse and melody are from Lillian K. Rickaby
of Riverside, California, as she heard them when a girl in Galesburg, Illinois; the other two verses
are from Neeta Marquis of Los Angeles as learned by her mother in Kentucky in the late 1840's.

Arr. A. G. W.

- 2 ee

we ee ae -
My pret-ty lit - tle Pink, I once ee think That you and JI would
5 == aaa owen -- = -- =
[Ea = =e === es aie a a =
a :
(leggiero)
Cae = = Se ees nee Sey See =
i= Ge i --- =a a ee

mar-ry, But nowl've lost all hopes of you, And I have no time to tar -ry.

ay
(== = sae ES a ee SS = = Sat
eee - eee 2S aes | i
a iis a a =
i ee a =

f=

-_--- (SS ae!

1 My pretty little Pink, I once did think
That you and I would marry,
But now I've lost all hopes of you,
And I have no time to tarry.

2 T'll take my knapsack on my back,
My rifle on my shoulder,
And I'll march away to the Rio Grande,
To view the forest over;

8 Where coffee grows on white oak trees,
And the river flows with brandy,
Where the girls are sweet as sweet can be
And the boys like sugar candy.

LINCOLN AND LIBERTY

This campaign ditty of 1860 has the brag and extravaganza of electioneering. The tune is
from "Old Rosin the Bow" and served earlier for a Henry Clay candidacy in which was the salu-
tation:

So, freemen, come on to the rally,

This motto emblazons your crest:
That lone star of Hope yet is shining,
It lightens the skies in the West.

Hark! freedom peals far in her thunder,
Her lightning no force can arrest,

She drives the foul army asunder.
"Hail, gallant old Hal of the West!"

In a later year when Horace Greeley was running for the Presidency against Gen. U. S. Grant,
voters were reminded, "Then let Greeley go to the dickens, too soon he has counted his chickens."

(SS ee

Hur-rah for thechoice of the na - tion! Our chief-tain so brave and so true; We'll
ears ST ee aN eee ee ee
: Ss ; Sey saa OES = 4 a
---- ot - pees ------ Ss = 7 = a a
-
go for thegreat re-form-a - tion, For Lin-coln and Lib-er- ty too. We'll

a eRe are ee :
ee eee

go for the Son of Ken-tuck-y, . The he-ro of Hoo-sier-domthrough; The

fed aes ear : as ! = :
SSS SS Sey
cere

pride of the Suck-ers so luck-y, For  Lin-coln and Lib-er- ty too.

1 Hurrah for the choice of the nation! 2 They'll find what by felling and mauling,
Our chieftain so brave and so true; Our rail-maker statesman can do;
We'll go for the great reformation, For the people are everywhere calling
For Lincoln and Liberty too. For Lincoln and Liberty too.
We'll go for the Son of Kentucky, Then up with our banner so glorious,
The hero of Hoosierdom through; The star-spangled red, white and blue,
The pride of the Suckers so lucky, We'll fight till our banner is victorious,
For Lincoln and Liberty too. For Lincoln and Liberty too.

OLD ABE LINCOLN CAME OUT OF THE WILDERNESS

Torchlight processions of Republicans sang this in the summer and fall months of 1860. The
young Wide Awakes burbled it as the kerosene dripped on their blue oilcloth capes. Quartets and
octettes jubilated with it in packed, smoky halls where audiences waited for speakers of the evening.
In Springfield, Illinois, the Tall Man who was a candidate for the presidency of the nation, heard
his two boys Tad and Willie, sing it at him. The tune is from negro spirituals, When I Come Out
De Wilderness and OI' Gray Mare Come Tearin' Out De Wilderness.

Arr. H. F.
if) gee ee Se
aT, Z E aay area es Es a) ee
a ee

Old

Abe Lin-coln came out of the wil-der-ness, Out of the wil-der-ness,

Fo

= SS SS
out of the wil-derness, Old Abe Oe came out of the wil-derness, Down in II - li- nois.
zi E e = Sars ; = = ee
ea rc mr c:) Ce i
== Genes ote -E es = iF |
4 cere ee
ate S a zi " 3 =e =

Ss

Old Abe Lincoln came out of the wilderness,
Out of the wilderness, out of the wilderness,
Old Abe Lincoln came out of the wilderness,
Down in Illinois.

THE ERIE CANAL
BIGERLOW

RED IRON ORE
RAGING CANAWL
THE E-RI-E

GREAT LAKES AND ERIE CANAL

HARMONIZATION BY
Alfred G. Wathall .
Leo Sowerby 5
Henry Francis Parks

PAGE

a

. wan Spree terre wre ne

A 7 : a Pe 7 _ wt
'? : Siu ite te gin ~ oe oury wy eae tem ee
ort ; Ag es » & mR anf oh a he » fs -
net 7 - 7 + Z
a ~
Ty i =
Sa =
_ =~ :
» -. -
ie SS
= me AS

THE ERIE CANAL

The Erie Canal, in its day, had dignity, almost majesty. Before railroads came, it was a great
- man-made transportation link connecting the Atlantic Ocean and the Great Lakes, a highway and
common carrier for an immense flow of merchandise westbound and of products eastbound. It
gave to the mid-west nails, steel, knives, scissors, fabrics, sewing machines in exchange for pork,
beef, wheat, corn. It was celebrated as a thing of use and public utility. People were thankful
for it as an achievement of human genius. A placid, even stream, its traffic ran quietly, softly,
lazily. Navigation was easy. Men and horses took their jobs as monotonous, mild burdens. A
day's travel, a walk, went with monotonous time-beats. The feel of this is in the best known Erie
Canal song. I have heard George S. Chappell (Dr. Traprock) sing it movingly, meditatively, so
that the Erie Canal took on the character of a symbol of life as a highway to be taken ploddingly
with steady pulse. Railroads may fill rush orders; not so canals. To say that Chappell's perform-
ance of this song is as interesting and important as a star performer's rendition of the "Song of the
Volga Boatmen," might be a misleading statement. Perhaps when certain American songs of vulgar
birth are as much loved by American singers as are similar Slavic melodies by Russian vocalists,
there may develop meditative airs and commonplace lyrics with the significant pauses and deeper
tintings not given them now. . . . The opening line here is sometimes, "I've got a gal, she's Big Foot
Sal.' On close acquaintance, one may find in the melodic and lyric statements here the gravity,
tenacity, and day-by-day responsibility that looks from the face of a faithful friendly mule. . . . An

incomplete verse from Dr. T. L. Chapman of Duluth has the lines:

Drop a tear for Big Foot Sal,
The best dam cook on the Erie Canal.

Moderato con moto | Arr. A. G. W.
(iis Sia oars S| a a : =e
G0 pa Se SS

I've got a mule, hername is _ Sal, Fif-teen miles on the Er - ie Can - al.

aS Ol Se as
Segre as be eee |
=e = SS te ees oe fan

gs eT ig eee een

mp - -S>-==-

: ee Ne ee
fee ie oe seers eae seca oor eee ree eo

She's a good old work-er and a good old pal, Fif-teen miles on the

THE ERIE CANAL

ee

== ae =

SS SS Se SS a
aS

a, i

Er - ie Can - al. We've haul'd some _ barg - es ins, sOuL ama Gay,
A a I eS

ol ok 22
SS SS

27 SS
SS

ee ee

[es ee

Fill'd with lum - ber, coal and hay, And we know ev-'ry inch of the way From

SSS ee

"S-
----- ee ee
REFRAIN a

SSS SSS

Al - ban -y to Buf -fa- lo... Low - ne ev - 'ry- bod - y down!

|
= eater == a ¥ -

= ae j- o "HE £" Sis | =
ed =
------ 2

-

Bees Ss Se aE

Low _bridge, for we're go - ingthro' a town, And you'llal-ways know your neigh-bor, You'll

THE ERIE CANAL

1 I've got a mule, her name is Sal,
Fifteen miles on the Erie Canal.
She's a good old worker and a good old pal,
Fifteen miles on the Erie Canal.
We've haul'd some barges in our day,
Fill'd with lumber, coal and hay,
And we know ev'ry inch of the way
From Albany to Buffalo.

Refrain:
Low bridge, ev'rybody down!
Low bridge, for we're going through a town,
And you'll always know your neighbor,
You'll always know your pal,
If you ever navigated on the Erie Canal.

2 We better get along on our way, old gal
Fifteen miles on the Erie Canal,
Cause you bet your life I'd never part with Sal,
Fifteen miles on the Erie Canal.

/ Git up there, mule, here comes a lock,

We'll make Rome 'bout six o'clock,

One more trip and back we'll go

Right back home to Buffalo.

Refrain:

BIGERLOW

We learn here the song of the Great Lakes boatmen, from the years when barges, "timber
drovers," carried raw products east and brought manufactured goods west. It is lusty and gusty
in such lines as, ''Give her the sheet an' let her go. We're the boys to see her through!" and it has
spray and wind magic in, '"' You should a'heard her howlin', When the wind was blowin' free!"" I
have this from Jack Raper, who writes the colyum in the Cleveland, Ohio, Press under the moniker
of Josh Wise. He had served as marine editor of the Cleveland Plaindealer about the same time I
was marine editor of the Milwaukee Journal. Our reunion was not as two old sea dogs but as two
old marine editors. The piece is related to "The Bigler," sung on the Great Lakes and among
lumberjacks.

' Arr. LS,

#5 6- =, = a

SS ee ee
*{[wasone Oc-to - ber morn-in' - I seen a aecmen ous sight; 'T was the

Hy reir

2ya 9-2 1 a - SRS SP Fens a
a SS STUEESS, oe = =

Catch her!Jumpup in her Ju-ju-ba-ju! | Give her thesheet an' let her go,We're the

, ba, aioe a
HS = es

@ =a - ee eee =
-- $= Sosa sssstsesaneseo nas enNSue aunesnnesnnsEDaseerSEnIeenESEENENESEOST

= = = = Se
_-o -- -- -- --
exe eae earl" ~S-. S-.

-- ee a ne

BIGERLOW

boys to see her through! Youshould a' heard her howlin' When the wind was blow- in'
aan as

oy gmp ig ==

SSS eS

free! *Twas on the trip to Buf-fa -lo from Mil - wau -_ kee!

--
SSS

-e

t
TICES

ej eee
ays aS
rs
oe ci

*T was one October mornin'

That I seen a wond'rous sight;
'Twas the timber drover Bigerlow
A-hailin' from Detrite.

Watch her! Catch her!

Jump up in her Jujubaju!

Give her the sheet an' let her go,
We're the boys to see her through!
You should a' heard her howlin'
When the wind was blowin' free!
'Twas on the trip to Buffalo from Milwaukee!

RED IRON ORE

Three of the Great Lakes (see any atlas) are traversed in this odyssey of red iron ore. It is a
log, the diary of a ship and its men on one cruise. The facts are specific. The E. C. Roberts was a
boat. So was The Minch. Riding up Lake Michigan, they passed through death's door; the lake
storms were ugly. At Escanaba loading red ore, they "looked like red devils." The crew of The
Minch thumbed their noses and taunted, "We'll see you in Cleveland next Fourth of July." But
the E. C. Roberts got there ahead of the fleet. A crew of "bold boys"' they were, even if they say so
themselves. The singer is humble, "Now my song is ended, I hope you won't laugh." The tune
is old Irish; the repeated line with each verse, "Derry down, down, down derry down,"' is in old
ballads. It is a virile song, a tale of grappling with harsh elements and riding through, a rattling
tune and a devil-may-care timebeat. It may, at first, seem just a lilt with a matter-of-fact story.
It is more than that; it is a little drama; the singer should know what it is to shovel red iron ore;
the singer should know the wide curves of that ship path from Chicago to Cleveland on three Great
Lakes (see any atlas).

Arr. HF. RP.

(SSS SS SS SS

Come all you bold sail-ors that fol -low theLakes On an i- ron ore ves-sel your

liv -ing tomake. I shipp'din Chi - ca - g0, bid a-dieu to the shore,Bounda -
° on

a ae r =| =| GF ore ie alae

way to Es-ca-na-ba for red i-ronore. Der -ry down,down,down der-ry down.

ae ee
eae ; ee te ge,

"

RED IRON ORE

1 Come all you bold sailors that follow the Lakes
On an iron ore vessel your living to make.
I shipped in Chicago, bid adieu to the shore,
Bound away to Escanaba for red iron ore.
Derry down, down, down derry down.

2 In the month of September, the seventeenth day,
Two dollars and a quarter is all they would pay,
And on Monday morning the Bridgeport did take
The E. C. Roberts out in the Lake.

Derry down, down, down derry down.

3 The wind from the south'ard sprang up a fresh breeze,
And away through Lake Michigan the Roberts did sneeze.
Down through Lake Michigan the Roberts did roar,

And on Friday morning we passed through death's door.

4 This packet she howled across the mouth of Green Bay,
And before her cutwater she dashed the white spray.
We rounded the sand point, our anchor let go,

We furled in our canvas and the watch went below.

5 Next morning we hove alongside the Evzile,
And soon was made fast to an iron ore pile,
They lowered their chutes and like thunder did roar,
They spouted into us that red iron ore.

6 Some sailors took shovels while others got spades,
And some took wheelbarrows, each man to his trade.
We looked like red devils, our fingers got sore,

We cursed Escanaba and that damned iron ore.

7 The tug Escanaba she towed out the Minch,
The Roberts she thought she had left in a pinch,
And as she passed by us she hid us good-bye,
Saying, "We'll meet you in Cleveland next Fourth of July!"

8 Through Louse Island it blew a fresh breeze;
We made the Foxes, the Beavers, the Skillageles;
We flew by the Minch for to show her the way,
And she ne'er hove in sight till we were off Thunder Bay.

9 Across Saginaw Bay the Roberts did ride
With the dark and deep water rolling over her side.
And now for Port Huron the Roberts must go,
Where the tug Kate Williams she took us in tow. |

WT

RED IRON ORE

10 We went through North Passage - O Lord, how it blew!
And all 'round the Dummy a large fleet there came too.
The night being dark, Old Nick it would scare.

We hove up next morning and for Cleveland did steer.

11 Now the Roberts is in Cleveland, made fast stem and stern,
And over the bottle we'll spin a big yarn.
But Captain Harvey Shannon had ought to stand treat
For getting into Cleveland ahead of the fleet.

12 Now my song is ended, I hope you won't laugh.
Our dunnage is packed and all hands are paid off.
Here's a health to the Roberts, she's staunch, strong and true;
Not forgotten the bold boys that comprise her crew.
Derry down, down, down derry down.

RAGING CANAWL

America has no more genuine folk lore than is in the following recitative, Raging Canawl.
It goes best when delivered for a small company by a performer who knows what he is doing. Drol-
leries lurk in every line. Only those who understand the perils of deep canal life can untie the
hawsers of foolery here. The word "canal" is to be pronounced "'canawl" so as to rhyme with
"squall."

1 Come, listen to my story, ye landsmen, one and all,
And I'll sing to you the dangers of that raging canal;
For I am one of many who expects a watery grave,
For I've been at the mercies of the winds and the waves.

2 I left Albany harbor about the break of day,
If rightly I remember, 'twas the second day of May;
We trusted to our driver, altho' he was but small,
Yet he knew all the windings of that raging canal.

3 It seemed as if the devil had work in hand that night.
For our oil it was all gone, and our lamps they gave no light;
The clouds began to gather, and the rain began to fall,
And I wished myself off of that raging canal.

4 The Captain told the driver to hurry with all speed,
And his orders were obeyed, for he soon cracked up his lead;
With the fastest kind of towing we allowed by twelve o'clock,
We should be in old Schenectady, right bang against the dock.

5 But sad was the fate of our poor devoted bark,
For the rain kept a-pouring faster, and the night it grew more dark,
The horses gave a stumble, and the driver gave a squall.
And they tumbled head and heels into that raging canal.

RAGING CANAWL

6 The Captain came on deck, with a voice so clear and sound,
Crying, "Cut the horses loose, my boys, or I swear we'll all be drowned!"
The driver paddled to the shore, altho' he was but small,
While the horses sank to rise no more in that raging canal.

7 The cook she wrung her hands, and she came upon the deck,
Saying: "Alas! what will become of us, our boat it is a wreck?"
The steersman laid her over, for he was a man of sense,

When the bowsman jumped ashore he lashed her to the fence.

8 We had a load of Dutch, and we stowed them in the hole,
They were not the least concerned about the welfare of their soul;
The Captain went below and implored them for to pray,

But the only answer he could get was, 'Nix come rous, nix fis staa."

9 The Captain came on deck with a spyglass in his hand,
But the night it was so dark he could not diskiver land;
He said to us with a faltering voice, while tears began to fall,
"Prepare to meet your death, my boys, this night on the canal."

10 The cook, she being kind-hearted, she loaned us an old dress,
Which we raised upon a setting pole as a signal of distress;
We agreed with restoration, aboard the boat to hide,

And never quit her deck whilst a plank hung to her side.

11 It was our good fortune about the break of day,
The storm it did abate, and a boat came by that way;
Our signal was discovered, and they hove alongside.
And we all jumped aboard and for Buffalo did ride.

| 12 I landed in Buffalo about twelve o'clock,

The first place I went to was down to the dock;

| I wanted to go up the lake, but it looked rather squally,
When along came Fred Emmons and his friend, Billy Bally.

13 Says Fred, "How do you do, and whar have you been so long?"
Says I, "For the last fortnight ve been on the canal;
For it stormed all the time, and thar was the devil to pay.
When we got in Tonawandy Creek we thar was cast away."

14 "Now," says Fred, "Let me tell you how to manage wind and weather,
In a storm hug to the towpath, and then lay feather to feather;
And when the weather is bad, and the wind it blows a gale,
Just jump ashore, knock down a horse - that's taking in a sail.

15 And if you wish to see both sides of the canal,
To steer your course to Buffalo, and that right true and well,
And it be so foggy that you cannot see the track,
Just call the driver aboard and hitch a lantern on his back."

THE E-RI-E

When hard work and the monotony of life overshadowed the souls on the Erie Canal, the crew
did what so many sailors and longshoremen ever have done. They took to drink and to song and
to hopes for an end of the voyage, to voicing in a tune their feelings about how life used them up and
left them unsung and unwept. The preacher, Koheleth, who sings so rhythmically in the Book of
Ecclesiastes, '' Vanity of vanities, all is vanity,"' or Omar in his short-spoken pessimism, arrive at a
philosophy somewhat like that sung here. Some might call it "realistic in the method of approach."
It tries for laughter at monotony and fate. We have this text and tune from Robert Wolfe and
Oliver R. Barrett of Chicago. The canal's name is enunciated in three syllables, viz., "E-ri-e."'

ee

we ; ws : oa ar
We were for - ty milesfrom Al - ba-ny, For -get it' nev -er shall,What a

Ss
ter - ri - ble storm we had one night On the E - ri - e Ca-nal. Oh the

- Tl- e was a- ees The gin was get ashy Res And Iscarce-ly think We'll

SS

get a drink Till we get to Buf - fa - (oa © . . Till we get to Buf - fa - lo.

1 We were forty miles from Albany,
Forget it I never shall,
What a terrible storm we had one night
On the E-ri-e Canal.

Refrain:
Oh the E-ri-e was a-rising
The gin was getting low
And I scarcely think
We'll get a drink
Till we get to Buffalo,
Till we get to Buffalo.

2 We were loaded down with barley,

We were chuck up full of rye;

And the captain he looked down at me
With his goddam wicked eye.

Refrain:

Oh the girls are in the Police Gazette,
The crew are all in jail;

I'm the only living sea cook's son
That's left to tell the tale.

Refrain:

oo

)
)
|

HOBO SONGS

HARMONIZATION BY

SHOVELLIN IRON ORE . . . . . . . . Alfred G. Wathall .
HALLELUJAH, IM A BUM! . . . . . .  . Henry Joslyn
TRAMP, TRAMP, TRAMP, KEEP ON A-TRAMPING ee eee a mt ee
THE DYING HOGGER (MEI 2. "sh (wl) COAfred Go Wathall .
WANDERING. ee a ew a tase Felina

iret ee ee er em sn ss Henry Francis: Parks
WE ARE FOUR BumMS . .. ....._.._._.._._..._._- Elizabeth Marshall

PAGE

;  abeiioR on

Wien ats, wee e4 ') piece ol €a4 abet uO: ee? i ¢ anoee ta at J pe
a Sa GP PG Sr 406 wm i & ae Oh aa GPa its tok aes pape
Da? é te via veaed rot im, iaige tion tt yeu gle | se oh means :
- "s ~~ ae ae eae ee > -_ = wat on : :

¢. : a ae ite > age
- s _ res ~ = vl
= bia i =

= gt x
@ r 7 < a
- = -. a <= > as
*
- *
a="
Sf 7 ws = ae
Ss > oe v
ve ~ ey 3 ' ad
.
= 2 - = & _ - 7
vw
5 F a J
~ - 7
- ee ee
- -~-
* » : :
- -s . "0
= ve oid
ie ic cok @ 7
= . ® "¢

wre & @™ on) ib

Ca UP pe 2 8 ee
The wis coe wes @ ys

: en ee 7 -
=a") wie ad OB 190 Gd) a a

aor as . -

an

SHOVELLIN' IRON ORE

"T got a snootful of it and I'll never go back," a fellow coal shoveler told me once in Omaha.
He was speaking of iron ore, heavier, dirtier, more infiltrating than coal dust. . . . Those who sing
this usually hook it up with We Are Four Bums.
Arr. A. G. W.

Some-thing hap-pened the oth - er day, that nev - er  hap-pened be -

staccato

4 i Se
fore. A man tried to get me to shov -el i - ron ore. Says

I, "Old man now what will you pay?" Says he, "Two bits

I, "Old man, go did-dle your-self, I'd rath - er bum."
