CHORDS: G     D     C  I'm packed and I'm holding, I'm smiling, she's living, she's golden and She lives for me, She says she lives for me, Ovation, She's got her own motivation,  She comes round and she goes down on me,  And I make her smile, It's like a drug for you,  Do ever what you want to do,  Coming over you, Keep on smiling,  What we go through.  One stop to the rhythm that divides you,  And I speak to you like the chorus to the verse,  Chop another line like a coda with a curse,  And I come on like a freak show takes the stage.  We give them the games we play, she said, I want something else, to get me through this, Semi-charmed kind of life,  I want something else,  I'm not listening when you say, Good-bye.   The sky it was gold, it was rose,  I was taking sips of it through my nose,  And I wish I could get back there,  Some place back there,  Smiling in the pictures you would take,  Doing crystal myth,  Will lift you up until you break,  It won't stop,  I won't come down, I keep stock,  With a tick tock rhythm and a bump for the drop,  And then I bumped up. I took the hit I was given,  Then I bumped again,  And then I bumped again. How do I get back there to,
The place where I fell asleep inside you?  How do I get myself back to,  The place where you said,  I want something else to get me through this,  Semi-charmed kind of life,  I want something else,  I'm not listening when you say, good-bye,   I believe in the sand beneath my toes,  The beach gives a feeling,  An earthy feeling,  I believe in the faith that grows,  And the four right chords can make me cry, When I'm with you I feel like I could die.  And that would be all right,  All right, When the plane came in,  She said she was crashing,  The velvet it rips,  In the city we tripped,  On the urge to feel alive,  But now I'm struggling to survive,  The days you were wearing,  That velvet dress, You're the priestess,  Must confess,  Those little red panties,  They pass the test,  Slide up around the belly,  Face down on the mattress, one,  Now you hold me,  And we're broken.  Still it's all that I want to do.  Feel myself with a head made of the ground,  I'm scared but I'm not coming down.  And I won't run for my life,  She's got her jaws just locked now in smile  But nothing is all right,  All right, I want something else,  To get me through this,  Semi-charmed kind of life,  I want something else,  I'm not listening when you say,  Good-bye.
